Protesters hold signs in solidarity with the American Federation of Government Employees at a March 4 rally in support of federal workers at the Office of Personnel Management in Washington, D.C. Alex Wroblewski/AFP via Getty Images hide caption
toggle caption
Alex Wroblewski/AFP via Getty Images
President Trump has signed an executive order ending collective bargaining for wide swaths of federal employees , as part of his broader campaign to reshape the U.S. government's workforce. The largest federal employee union says the order affects over 1 million workers.
In a fact sheet , the White House says the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (CSRA) gives him the authority to halt collective bargaining at agencies with national security missions.
This provision has traditionally applied to certain employees at agencies such as the CIA, the FBI or the National Security Agency.
But Trump's order, signed late Thursday, is more far-reaching, and includes employees whose jobs touch on national defense, border security, foreign relations, energy security, pandemic preparedness, the economy, public safety and cybersecurity.
Sponsor Message
It notably excludes law enforcement. "Police and firefighters will continue to collectively bargain," the White House fact sheet states.
Trump gutted federal employee unions. They believe he'd do it again
Unions are roundly condemning the move.
"This administration's latest executive order is union busting, pure and simple," said Irma Westmoreland, a registered nurse at a veterans hospital in Augusta, Ga., who spoke in her capacity as chair of Veterans Affairs for National Nurses United.
The union represents nurses caring for patients' physical and mental health at veterans facilities around the country.
"We need to feel free as unionized nurses to speak up about patient safety issues," said Westmoreland. "Veterans deserve nurses who are free to advocate for their care without fear of discipline or losing our jobs."
Trump had previously issued executive actions eroding employee rights under union contracts. For example, one directive sought to invalidate collectively bargained telework provisions, declaring that they were in conflict with management rights. He's also taken aim at the amount of time employees serving in union leadership positions could spend on collective bargaining and other union-related business.
The administration had also already ended collective bargaining rights for Transportation Security Administration officers who run airport checkpoints.
The executive order signed Thursday night covers all or some unionized employees at around 20 agencies, including the departments of Agriculture, Veterans Affairs, Health and Human Services, State, Justice, Energy, Interior, Treasury, Defense and others.
Sponsor Message
Unions point out that the CSRA granted federal workers collective bargaining rights in order to provide them a way to address workplace issues without disrupting government operations.
"Labor organizations and collective bargaining in the civil service are in the public interest," the CSRA states .
In its fact sheet, the White House made clear it thought unions were standing in its way.
"Certain Federal unions have declared war on President Trump's agenda," the fact sheet states. "The CSRA enables hostile Federal unions to obstruct agency management."

