“You have these cases that have already gone to the Supreme Court. They’ve been settled, and I’m fine with that,” Trump said.
But on abortion, he thought differently.
When Stahl pushed him on the topic, rather than saying the 43-year-old Roe v Wade ruling is “settled,” Trump said that the justice or justices he appoints to the bench will be “pro life,” leaving open the possibility it could be overturned. He said that if the decision is overturned, the issue will be returned to the states.
“Then some women won’t be able to get an abortion,” Stahl pressed.
“Yeah. Well perhaps they have to go to another state,” Trump responded.
Trump – with the help of conservative groups such as the Heritage Foundation and the Federalist Society – has put forward a list of 21 potential Supreme Court nominees. Many of the judges on that list might not see a difference between the Roe decision and Obergefell.
On abortion, it’s not so much about being “pro life” as it is about interpreting the Constitution with an originalist’s approach. Judicial conservatives, like Thomas and Scalia, reject the core holding in Roe that there is a right to privacy in the Constitution that would protect a woman’s right to abortion.
And on the issue of gay marriage, they reject the notion that the Constitution limits the ability of states to restrict same-sex marriage.
Scalia himself wrote a scathing dissent in Obergefell case. “Today’s decree says that my Ruler and the Rule of 320 million Americans coast-to-coast, is a majority of the nine lawyers on the Supreme Court,” he wrote.
“This practice of constitutional revision by an unelected committee of nine, always accompanied (as it is today) by extravagant praise of liberty, robs the People of the most important liberty they asserted in the Declaration of Independence and won in the Revolution of 1776: the freedom to govern themselves,” Scalia added.
Josh Blackman an associate professor of Law at the South Texas College of Law in Houston, said that Trump’s remarks are not entirely clear but could be understood to suggest that even though Roe v. Wade was decided years ago, it is still quite contested.
“By contrast, Obergefell – as it relates to same-sex marriage – has largely been accepted as settled,” he said, noting the exception of Kim Davis and other clerks who have refused to issue marriage certificates.
That means that while same-sex marriage itself might not be coming back to the Supreme Court any time soon, restrictions to abortion, meant to narrow Roe, could very well return to the court sooner rather than later.
Ad Feedback

