'A coward who is Vladimir Putin's puppet': Rep. Moulton on Trump's meeting with Zelensky
01:59
“I hope I’m going to be remembered as a peacemaker,” Trump said as he looked ahead to the prospect of finalizing a broader peace deal with Russia and Ukraine.
But the acrimony that burst into full view raised questions about the prospects of reaching a peaceful solution, raising fresh alarm across Europe, where leaders have worked for weeks to warn Trump of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s past actions and potential future intentions with Ukraine.
Again and again, Trump has sided with Putin. But with voices raised in the Oval Office, Trump unleashed years of pent-up frustration toward Russia and Ukraine, which led to his first impeachment.
“Let me tell you, Putin went through a hell of a lot with me,” Trump said. “He went through a phony witch hunt where they used him and Russia, Russia, Russia.”
After the meeting, Trump said in a Truth Social post that Zelensky could come back to the White House “when he is ready for peace.”
“We had a very meaningful meeting in the White House today. Much was learned that could never be understood without conversation under such fire and pressure,” he said.
“It’s amazing what comes out through emotion, and I have determined that President Zelenskyy is not ready for Peace if America is involved, because he feels our involvement gives him a big advantage in negotiations. I don’t want advantage, I want PEACE. He disrespected the United States of America in its cherished Oval Office. He can come back when he is ready for Peace.”
For the sake of diplomacy, it was a catastrophic end to a week that began on a hopeful note at the White House, where French President Emmanuel Macron and British Prime Minister Keir Starmer visited in hopes of paving the way to a security agreement with Ukraine.
Trump’s meetings with the pair of European leaders were awash in pleasantries to prepare him for his one-on-one session with Zelensky, which ended as no one could have imagined.
“I’ve empowered you to be a tough guy,” Trump said to the Ukrainian leader. “I don’t think you’d be a tough guy without the United States.”
Speaking with reporters after a TV appearance at the White House, Graham said Zelensky “either needs to resign and send somebody over that we can do business with, or he needs to change.”
“What I saw in the Oval Office was disrespectful, and I don’t know if we can ever do business with Zelensky again. I think most Americans saw a guy that they would not want to go into business with. The way he handled the meeting, the way he confronted the president was just over the top,” Graham said.
Graham said he had spoken to Zelensky Friday morning.
“Don’t take the bait,” Graham recalled saying. “President Trump was in a very good mood last night.”
But Democrats placed the blame on Trump and Vance.
Sen. Jack Reed, the ranking member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, called the meeting “a political ambush and a shameful failure of American leadership” in a statement. The Rhode Island Democrat said the day’s “cruel and callous display does great harm to U.S. standing in the world. Trump and Vance are communicating to the world that the United States is not to be trusted. Adversaries and allies alike will take note.”
This story has been updated with additional developments.
CNN’s Jennifer Hansler and Lauren Fox contributed to this report.
Ad Feedback

