Mail
The wide-ranging investigation into Donald Trump's business activities and ties to Russia began with a protocol-breaking interview with Alexander Downer.
The former Foreign Minister and then High Commissioner to the United Kingdom spoke to the FBI in the first few days of the investigation , the New York Times reports.
Downer was granted permission from Canberra to break diplomatic protocol to be interviewed by agents in London in August 2016.
Downer spoke with the FBI about a conversation he had at a London wine bar with Trump campaign adviser George Papadopoulos that May.
Alexander Downer (second from left), with Malcolm Turnbull, Prince Harry, Meghan Markle and Lucy Turnbull last month. (AAP) (AAP)
Papadopoulos purportedly told Downer that Russia had accessed thousands of embarrassing emails sent by Hillary Clinton .
When those emails started being released by Wikileaks, Australian officials contacted their American counterparts, triggering the FBI investigation initially named Crossfire Hurricane.
Crossfire Hurricane is a phrase from the Rolling Stones song 'Jumping Jack Flash'.
Papadopoulos has pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI and is now a cooperating witness in the special investigation.
George Papadopoulos (third from left) in a meeting with Donald Trump. (Instagram) (Instagram)
Double standards
As it is revealed how much the FBI knew before the election, the bureau is facing increasing criticism for staying silent.
FBI Director James Comey breached protocol by announcing they had reopened an investigation into Hillary Clinton's emails.
Hillary Clinton at a rally in Orlando, Florida. (AP)
Clinton has said the announcement, made a week before the election, cost her the presidency.
"I have laid out in I think very persuasive evidence that (Comey's) intervention on October 28 was the most important reason why I ended up losing 11 days later," Clinton said.
The investigation was closed days later with no wrongdoing found.
Meanwhile, the FBI was in a more serious, deeper investigation of then-candidate Donald Trump and his associates.
Former FBI Director James Comey testifies in front of the Senate Intelligence Committee. (AFP)
But Comey has said they did not reveal Trump was under scrutiny out of fear of hindering the investigation.
The investigation was transferred to the office of special counsel Robert Mueller after Trump sacked Comey.
Alexander Downer. (AAP) (AAP)
Since then, five people have pleaded guilty to a range of charges, including Trump's former campaign chairman Robert Manafort and former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn.
Continue reading

