Disclaimer
Last updated: August 27th, 2019
Welcome to the websites, applications and services provided by Business Insider, which include without limitation www.businessinsider.com , www.techinsider.io , www.insider.com , markets.businessinsider.com , coupons.businessinsider.com (in partnership with GSG) (the "Sites").
Business Insider publishes news, information, analysis, opinion, and commentary. The Sites include both reported and edited content and unmoderated posts and comments containing personal opinions on a wide range of topics.
Business Insider does not routinely moderate, screen, or edit content contributed by readers. The Sites and any information therein are provided without warranty of any kind, including the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for use of a particular purpose, accuracy, or non-infringement.
Business Insider does not guarantee that the Sites will operate in an uninterrupted or error-free manner or is free of viruses or other harmful components. Use of information obtained from or through the Sites is at your own risk. The Sites are not liable for any loss or damages including, but not limited to, claims for defamation, errors, loss of data, loss of money, or interruption in availability of data arising out of the use or inability to use the Sites or any links; to your placement of content on the Sites; or to your reliance upon information obtained from or through the Sites or through links contained on the Sites.
Neither Business Insider nor the Sites are an intermediary, broker/dealer, investment advisor, or exchange and do not provide investment advice or investment advisory services.
The Sites may offer health, fitness, nutritional and other related information, but such information is designed for educational and informational purposes only. Such information does not and is not intended to convey medical advice. Business Insider is not responsible for any actions or inaction on your part based on the information in the Sites. Please consult a physician or medical professional for personal medical advice.
Legal & Privacy

