Democratic congressman: Congress must overturn the Supreme Court's travel ban ruling
Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA)
Rep. Don Beyer, a Democrat from Virginia, urged Congress to act and overturn the Supreme Court’s ruling to uphold President Trump’s travel ban.
“Congress has to act,” he said. “We have to overturn what the Supreme Court has done. We cannot let this stand.”
Beyer called the ban “racist” and “immoral,” adding that the court’s decision today was “disappointing and it’s wrong.”
“And if the Supreme Court’s going to do this, it’s up to Congress to pass the Freedom of Religion (Restoration) Act, which will ban any law which will prohibit people from coming to this country because of their religious views,” he said.
Link Copied!
How the travel ban could affect visitors coming to the US
From CNN's Holly Yan
The Supreme Court just handed a huge victory to the Trump administration by upholding its controversial travel ban – which restricts nationals from seven countries from entering the US.
The Trump administration says the ban restricts entry from the following seven countries to varying degrees: Iran, North Korea, Syria, Libya, Yemen, Somalia and Venezuela.
Here’s what the latest travel ban means to travelers coming to the US:
Link Copied!
New York governor calls travel ban Islamophobia "camouflaged as national security"
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo spoke to CNN’s Wolf Blitzer about the travel ban and called it “a stain on this country’s history.”
“This was clearly, in my opinion, a religious bias – it was camouflaged as national security, but it was Islamophobia,” Cuomo said.
Watch:
“It’s a stain on this country’s history. This was clearly, in my opinion, a religious bias – it was camouflaged as national security, but it was Islamophobia.” New York Governor Cuomo responds to the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold Trump’s travel ban https://t.co/Wdo72Rwmd9 pic.twitter.com/fAwP8Ph5bW
— The Situation Room (@CNNSitRoom) June 26, 2018
Link Copied!
This is the scene outside of the Supreme Court
From CNN's Saba Hamedy
Protesters have rallied in front of the Supreme Court to protest its decision to uphold President Trump’s travel ban.
Jonathan Espinoza, who protested with the group briefly before leaving to head back to work, captured this video of the scene:
Instagram post not found.
Post has been removed or is no longer public.
The crowd gathered earlier this morning, and several lawmakers have addressed them, including Sens. Mazie Hirono and Richard Blumenthal.
. @maziehirono “This is a dark day for America.” pic.twitter.com/InBvdThe3i
— Saba Hamedy (@saba_h) June 26, 2018
Link Copied!
Jeff Flake: The travel ban could ultimately make us less safe
From CNN's Manu Raju
Arizona Sen. Jeff Flake just told CNN’s Manu Raju that the world likely sees the Supreme Court-approved travel ban “for what it is intended to be.”
“I don’t think it’s wise. I don’t think it lends to a matter of national security,” Flake said on Capitol Hill. “The President’s intent was pretty much outlined in December of 2015, when he said he wanted a Muslim ban of all Muslims entering the United States.”
“I think they got it to where they needed to be constitutional but I think the world sees it for what it is intended to be,” the Republican lawmaker said, adding that the ban could make the country less safe because it could be interpreted as “US vs Islam rather than the West vs. terrorism.”
Link Copied!
Trump again calls the court decision a "tremendous victory for the American People"
President Trump, speaking publicly for the first time since the Supreme Court ruled in favor of his travel ban, called the decision a “tremendous success.”
“Today’s Supreme court ruling just coming out: A tremendous success, a tremendous victory for the American people, and for our Constitution. This is a great victory for our Constitution. We have to be tough, and we have to be safe and we have to be secure,” he said.
He added: “At a minimum, we have to make sure that we vet people coming into the country.”
The comment closely mirrored the statement Trump released shortly after the decision was announced, in which he declared, “Today’s Supreme Court ruling is a tremendous victory for the American People and the Constitution.”
Watch more:
— Meg Wagner (@megwagner) June 26, 2018
Link Copied!
Top Democrat: Future generations will see today's ruling "as a dark stain on our history"
ZACH GIBSON/AFP/Getty Images
Representative Eliot Engel, a New York Democrat who serves as ranking member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, just issued a statement that calls today’s Supreme Court ruling a “mistake” that “future generations will view as a dark stain on our history.”
He added, “We look back with shame and regret on the internment of Japanese-Americans and the turning-away of the MS St. Louis — chapters in America’s story when fear and ignorance overwhelmed moral clarity and compassion. I have no doubt that history will pass the same judgment on this decision and those who supported it.”
Link Copied!
New York mayor: "This ban is institutionalized Islamophobia"
CNN
New York Mayor Bill de Blasio just issued a statement strongly condemning Trump’s travel ban, calling it “institutionalized Islamophobia, promoted under the guise of national security.”
His full statement:
“This ban is institutionalized Islamophobia, promoted under the guise of national security. Banning people from our country on the basis of religion is an affront to our founding ideals. With this decision, the highest court in the land has sent a message of exclusion and division across the globe. As our President tries to build walls, New York City will continue to welcome people from all over the world to our shores, from all faith traditions. Our values have helped make our city the safest big city in the United States – and they are what make America great.”
Link Copied!
Senior Democrat: Supreme Court ruling just "legitimized discrimination and religious intolerance"
House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley just issued a statement saying today’s decision “will be remembered as one where the Supreme Court of the United States legitimized discrimination and religious intolerance.”
He called it “deeply shameful” and said it “strikes at the heart of the principles our nation was founded on and the values we hold dear as Americans.”
The statement added:
“Instituting a religious test and vilifying refugees seeking asylum is immoral, ignorant, and hateful. President Trump’s Muslim Ban is the antithesis to everything we stand for, and we will continue to fight against this policy and this administration’s xenophobic and intolerant agenda.”
The powerful 10-term incumbent, who is often mentioned as a possible successor to California’s Rep. Nancy Pelosi as Democratic leader (perhaps as early as next year), is being challenged today by activist Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in New York’s primary.
Link Copied!

