Enlarge this image
A photo provided by U.S. Customs and Border Protection shows the interior of a CBP facility in McAllen, Texas, on Sunday. Immigration officials have separated thousands of families who crossed the border illegally. Reporters taken on a tour of the facility were not allowed by agents to interview any of the detainees or take photos, the AP reported. U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Rio Grande Valley Sector via AP hide caption
toggle caption
U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Rio Grande Valley Sector via AP
A photo provided by U.S. Customs and Border Protection shows the interior of a CBP facility in McAllen, Texas, on Sunday. Immigration officials have separated thousands of families who crossed the border illegally. Reporters taken on a tour of the facility were not allowed by agents to interview any of the detainees or take photos, the AP reported.
U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Rio Grande Valley Sector via AP
Updated at 4:40 a.m. ET Wednesday
Since early May, 2,342 children have been separated from their parents after crossing the Southern U.S. border, according to the Department of Homeland Security, as part of a new immigration strategy by the Trump administration that has prompted widespread outcry.
On Wednesday, President Trump signed an executive order reversing his policy of separating families — and replacing it with a policy of detaining entire families together, including children, but ignoring legal time limits on the detention of minors.
Here's what we know about the family separation policy, its history and its effects:
Sponsor Message
Did the Trump administration have a policy of separating families at the border?
Yes.
In April, U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions ordered prosecutors along the border to "adopt immediately a zero-tolerance policy" for illegal border crossings. That included prosecuting parents traveling with their children as well as people who subsequently attempted to request asylum.
In Their Own Words
President Trump : "The United States will not be a migrant camp and it will not be a refugee holding facility. ... Not on my watch."
Attorney General Jeff Sessions : "If you cross this border unlawfully, then we will prosecute you. It's that simple. ... If you are smuggling a child, then we will prosecute you and that child will be separated from you as required by law. If you don't like that, then don't smuggle children over our border."
Sessions on whether the policy is a deterrent: "Yes, hopefully people will get the message and come through the border at the port of entry and not break across the border unlawfully."
Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen : Under the "zero tolerance" policy, when families cross the border illegally, "Operationally, what that means is we will have to separate your family. That's no different than what we do every day in every part of the United States when an adult of a family commits a crime."
White House chief of staff John Kelly : Separating families is "a tough deterrent. ... The children will be taken care of — put into foster care or whatever. But the big point is they elected to come illegally into the United States and this is a technique that no one hopes will be used extensively or for very long."
White House officials have repeatedly acknowledged that under that policy, they separate all families who cross the border. Sessions has described it as deterrence.
U.S. Customs and Border Protection explains on its site and in a flyer that border-crossing families will be separated.
The policy was unique to the Trump administration. Previous administrations did not, as a general principle, separate all families crossing the U.S. border illegally.
What policy did Trump enact on Wednesday?
On Wednesday, Trump ended the policy of family separation and replaced it with a policy of family detention.
He signed an executive order that kept the zero-tolerance policy in place — but added, "It is also the policy of this Administration to maintain family unity, including by detaining alien families together where appropriate and consistent with law and available resources." It did provide an exception for when authorities believe keeping the family together would be harmful for the child.
Sponsor Message
In signing the order, Trump noted "there may be some litigation" — that is, a legal challenge to the new policy.
A 2015 court order, based on a document called the Flores settlement, prevents the government from keeping migrant children in detention for more than 20 days. Trump has instructed Attorney General Jeff Sessions to ask the federal court to modify that agreement in order to allow children, and by extension, unified families, to be kept in detention without time limit.
The request asks, specifically, for permission from the courts "to detain alien families together throughout the pendency of criminal proceedings for improper entry or any removal or other immigration proceedings."
Trump also calls for branches of his administration to make facilities available for detaining families with children — and calls on the Defense Department, to build new facilities "if necessary."
The Obama administration practiced family detention, until the court order prohibited it. Many of the same groups that have vocally denounced family separation are also opposed to family detention, and had urged supervised release instead.
Children currently remain separated from their parents. In signing the order, Trump said it would keep families together "in the immediate days forward." It is not clear when or how currently separated families will be reunited.
What happens when families are separated?
The process begins at a Customs and Border Protection detention facility. But many details about what happens next — how children are taken from their parents and by whom — were unclear.
According to the Texas Civil Rights Project, which has been able to speak with detained adults, multiple parents reported that they were separated from their children and not given any information about where their children would go . The organization also says that in some cases, the children were taken away under the pretense that they would be getting a bath.
Sponsor Message
The Los Angeles Times spoke to unnamed Homeland Security officials who said parents were given information about the family separation process and that "accusations of surreptitious efforts to separate are completely false."
To Curb Illegal Immigration, DHS Separating Families At The Border
From the point of separation forward, the policy for treating the separated children appears to be the same as existing systems for detaining and housing unaccompanied immigrant children — designed for minors who cross the border alone. Those unaccompanied minors were generally older than the children affected by family separation.
A photo provided by U.S. Customs and Border Protection shows people detained at a facility in McAllen, Texas, on Sunday. U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Rio Grande Valley Sector via AP hide caption
toggle caption
U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Rio Grande Valley Sector via AP
A photo provided by U.S. Customs and Border Protection shows people detained at a facility in McAllen, Texas, on Sunday.
U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Rio Grande Valley Sector via AP
Where have children gone once they've been separated?
The answer varies over time. Children begin at Customs and Border Protection facilities, are transferred to longer-term shelters and are supposed to eventually be placed with families or sponsors. Here's more about each step:
Customs and Border Protection facilities. If you've seen photos of children in what look like chain-link cages — whether unaccompanied minors in 2014 or separated children in 2018 — they are probably photos from a Customs and Border Protection facility.
Children usually are held here initially, but it is illegal to keep them for more than three days — these holding cells are not meant for long-term detention.
ACLU Report: Detained Immigrant Children Subjected To Widespread Abuse By Officials
The Associated Press visited one site on Monday and described a "large, dark facility" with separate wings for children, adults and families:
"Inside an old warehouse in South Texas, hundreds of children wait in a series of cages created by metal fencing. One cage had 20 children inside. Scattered about are bottles of water, bags of chips and large foil sheets intended to serve as blankets."
Such facilities have been criticized before for poor conditions and reports of abuse and inhumane treatment , including a number of allegations the CBP strongly denies.
Child immigrant shelters. Within three days, children are supposed to be transferred from immigration detention to the Office of Refugee Resettlement, which is part of the Department of Health and Human Services.
Sponsor Message
For 15 years, ORR has handled the "care and placement" of unaccompanied migrant children. Until recently, that usually meant minors who crossed into the U.S. alone. Now it also includes children who have been separated from their families by authorities, including much younger children.
On a call with reporters on Tuesday, a Border Patrol official said that it's a matter of "discretion" how young is too young for a child to be separated from their parents. In general, he said, the age of 5 has been used as a benchmark, with children younger than that called "tender-aged."
The CEO of Southwest Key, which operates 26 ORR shelters, tells NPR the children at his facilities range from ages "zero to 17."
On the same call, an HHS official said that some of the ORR shelters are specifically equipped to take care of children younger than 13. He provided few details and could not say how many children under 13, under 5 or under 2 are currently being held by HHS.
Now The Associated Press reports that it has located three centers in Texas that "have been rapidly repurposed to serve needs of children including some under 5," with a fourth center scheduled to open in Houston. Infants are among the detained children, the AP reports.

