published
25 June 2022
Former President Donald Trump said Friday that the Supreme Court's decision in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization was "the biggest WIN for LIFE in a generation" and was "only made possible" by his three Supreme Court appointees.
During a 2016 presidential debate, Trump predicted that Roe v. Wade (1973) , which established abortion as a constitutional right, would be overturned "automatically" if he were elected and given the chance to "put another two or perhaps three" pro-life justices on the Supreme Court. Trump's words proved prophetic. All three of his appointees — Justices Neil Gorsuch, Brett Kavanaugh, and Amy Coney Barrett — voted to overturn Roe.
Privately, however, Trump has expressed concerns about the political consequences of the Dobbs decision.
The Week
SUBSCRIBE & SAVE
Sign up for The Week's Free Newsletters
From our morning news briefing to a weekly Good News Newsletter, get the best of The Week delivered directly to your inbox.
From our morning news briefing to a weekly Good News Newsletter, get the best of The Week delivered directly to your inbox.
Sign up
Two of Trump's advisors told The Washington Post that the former president favors limiting abortion rather than banning it and has complained that a too-zealous crackdown on abortion rights could hurt Republicans in the suburbs.
"He is convinced it won't help him in the future," one advisor said of Trump's response to the Dobbs decision. Trump has teased repeatedly that he plans to run for president in 2024.
Sign up for Today's Best Articles in your inbox
A free daily email with the biggest news stories of the day – and the best features from TheWeek.com
Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands
Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors
By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
Explore More
Grayson Quay
Social Links Navigation
Grayson Quay was the weekend editor at TheWeek.com. His writing has also been published in National Review, the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, Modern Age, The American Conservative, The Spectator World, and other outlets. Grayson earned his M.A. from Georgetown University in 2019.
Latest

