This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
              subscribers. Become an Insider and start reading now. Have an account?
Log in
.
Business Insider is a leading global news brand renowned for its coverage of business, technology, and innovation, helping millions of readers get more out of their careers and lives through award-winning journalism .
Our journey began in 2007 when we burst onto the scene as Silicon Alley Insider. Two years later, we adopted the name Business Insider. We were trailblazers, breaking the real story of Facebook's founding, demystifying the 2008 financial crisis for our readers, and profiling the visionaries who built some of today's largest tech companies. We covered the startups and people our audience cared about, even if we occasionally ruffled some feathers. We showed the world that business journalism could be visual and fun.
Over time we grew into a global news organization, with journalists from New York to Singapore. We moved headquarters from a loading dock into a real office in the Financial District. We built a video team. We embraced social distribution and platforms. Our stories have changed government policies, gotten executives fired, launched investigations, and reopened closed cases. We turned small businesses into overnight sensations. We coined terms like "quiet quitting" that entered the zeitgeist. We tried lots of things — some ideas worked, others didn't. We won our first Pulitzer Prize.
Nearly two decades later, the core of who we are hasn't changed. Our future as Business Insider reaffirms our commitment to business, tech, and innovation as our center of gravity.
Explore our award-winning stories , meet our leadership team, including CEO Barbara Peng and Editor in Chief Jamie Heller , and read about recent updates from Business Insider . Engage further:
How to never miss a Business Insider story in your Google search results
Sign up here for our newsletters, including Business Insider Today , Defense Flash , and Tech Memo
Subscribe to Business Insider for unlimited access
Get the Business Insider app on Apple App Store for iOS devices and the Google play store for Android devices.
Follow us on YouTube , LinkedIn , Twitter/X , Instagram, and Facebook
Interested in building a career at Business Insider? See current openings .

