Business Insider
Send Business Insider News Tips More Securely
As an independent news organization, Business Insider depends on news tips from sources to investigate important institutions. While we look for our sources to speak on the record, there are occasions when we may agree to keep a source anonymous; in such cases, the sources may also want to take additional steps to protect themselves and it helps if they have communicated securely from the start. While all systems can have security gaps, below are some suggestions for sending Business Insider news tips more securely.
In general, phone calls are more secure for tips than emails or texts. The Signal app (see below) is more secure than a traditional phone call. In-person communication, such as a meeting at a coffee shop, is an even more secure option.
Calls and Texts
Use a nonwork device connected to the internet via a nonwork WiFi connection.
Consider using a friend's phone if you're concerned your employer is surveilling your devices.
The best time and place to talk is outside work — on a lunch break, for instance.
Consider using the Signal messaging app. It provides end-to-end encryption, which keeps your communications private. The service is maintained by the nonprofit Signal Foundation. Read more about Signal's security features here . Download it here and be sure to keep it up to date. Many reporters use Signal and include their contact details at the bottom of their stories or on their bio pages on the site.
You can talk over Signal's voice-calling feature, too. This is more secure than a traditional phone line.
Consider using the WhatsApp messaging app. WhatsApp is another app that, like Signal, is end-to-end encrypted, which keeps your communications private. It is owned by Meta, which also owns Facebook, and while the app is encrypted, the conversation metadata is stored, which means it may be accessible at the corporate level or under subpoena. Many reporters use WhatsApp and include their contact details at the bottom of their stories or on their bio pages on the site.
Don't add journalists' contact details to your digital address book.
Email
Email is one of the least secure means of contacting us, but if this is your preference, you should use a nonwork email address. You may want to consider setting up an encrypted email address using Switzerland-based Proton Mail .
Use a nonwork device connected to the internet via a nonwork WiFi connection.
Send the newsroom an email at newstips@businessinsider.com , or by reaching out to individual reporters at the email addresses listed on their articles and author pages. Keep in mind that system administrators at either your email provider or ours may be able to access and read your message.
Sharing Physical Files
If you have documents or other physical evidence, one of the most secure ways to share them is through in-person meetings.
Be wary of which printer you use. Many printers embed a faint watermark that contains the device's serial number and the date and time of printing. Such information can be used to identify the person who printed the document. To avoid this, consider using a shared printer at an internet café or library, for example.
Physical mail is a relatively simple and secure method of contacting us anonymously. Prepare the letter while wearing gloves, use a self-sealing envelope and store-bought postage, and mail it at a blue USPS mailbox far away from your home and office. If you do not wish to be contacted, do not include a return address. Alternatively, put a Signal number or a return address inside the envelope. Pay in cash. Addresses for our news bureaus are below:
New York
Business Insider ℅ Investigations 1 Liberty Plaza, Floor 8 New York, NY 10006
San Francisco
Business Insider ℅ Investigations 44 Montgomery St., Floor 3 San Francisco, CA 94104
London
Business Insider 2nd Floor, WeWork 145 City Road London EC1V 1AZ England
Legal & Privacy

