President-elect Joe Biden speaks Monday in Wilmington, Del., during a virtual meeting with the U.S. Conference of Mayors. Mark Makela/Getty Images hide caption
toggle caption
Mark Makela/Getty Images
President-elect Joe Biden speaks Monday in Wilmington, Del., during a virtual meeting with the U.S. Conference of Mayors.
Mark Makela/Getty Images
Updated on Tuesday at 12:25 p.m. ET
Joe Biden's administration can formally begin its transition to power after a previously little-known federal agency on Monday ascertained Biden as the apparent winner of the election more than two weeks after the Democrat became president-elect.
The awaited decision from the General Services Administration provides the incoming Biden team with federal resources and access to agencies.
The news came as President Trump, who has still hasn't conceded the White House race, tweeted he was "recommending" the GSA and others in his administration begin "initial protocols" to kick-start the formal transfer of presidential power.
Sponsor Message
...fight, and I believe we will prevail! Nevertheless, in the best interest of our Country, I am recommending that Emily and her team do what needs to be done with regard to initial protocols, and have told my team to do the same.
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 23, 2020
While Trump said he had recommended the moves, Emily Murphy, the Trump appointee who heads the GSA, wrote in her "letter of ascertainment" to Biden that she had reached the decision independently.
"Please know that I came to my decision independently, based on the law and available facts," Murphy wrote in the letter, dated Monday, first obtained by CNN . "I was never directly or indirectly pressured by any Executive Branch official — including those who work at the White House or GSA — with regard to the substance or timing of my decision. To be clear, I did not receive any direction to delay my determination."
Murphy had faced criticism from Democrats, national security experts and health officials, who argued that delaying the formal transition was hampering the incoming Biden administration from getting up to speed on the response to the coronavirus pandemic and jeopardizing national security. A handful of GOP lawmakers also called for Murphy to allow the transition to get underway.
"Contrary to media reports and insinuations, my decision was not made out of fear or favoritism," she wrote. "Instead, I strongly believe that the statute requires that the GSA Administrator ascertain, not impose, the apparent president-elect. Unfortunately, the statute provides no procedures or standards for this process, so I looked to precedent from prior elections involving legal challenges and incomplete counts."
General Services Administration Administrator Emily Murphy had been blocking Biden's team from receiving government funds and office space to begin the transition. Susan Walsh/AP hide caption
toggle caption
Susan Walsh/AP
General Services Administration Administrator Emily Murphy had been blocking Biden's team from receiving government funds and office space to begin the transition.
Susan Walsh/AP
Murphy wrote she had reached her decision "because of recent developments involving legal challenges and certifications of election results."
Sponsor Message
The president has not conceded the election despite numerous legal setbacks and the certification of votes in some key states, including Michigan on Monday.
Trump also wrote in his tweets that his "case STRONGLY continues."
Trump thanked Murphy for her "dedication and loyalty" and also bemoaned the criticism she received.
The decision means Biden's team should now have access to government office space, will be able to meet with Trump administration officials to discuss policy issues, and will receive some $7.3 million to pay staffers and other expenses.

