Donald Trump effigy burned by protesters
01:56
Several protesters said they feared that family or friends might be deported once Trump takes office.
Brooklyn White, an 18-year-old who voted for Clinton, held a sign that said, “Hate won’t win.”
“We can’t let it stop us,” she said. “If he’s the president, then fine. But if Donald Trump is going to be it, then he has to listen.”
As many as 3,000 people joined Wednesday’s demonstrations in the city, and 28 people were arrested for running into the 101 Freeway, said Los Angeles police spokeswoman Liliana Preciado. There was some property damage, but it’s too early to know the exact extent, she said.
Mayor Eric Garcetti said in a statement, “I understand that the results of Tuesday’s election are painful for many of us, and this kind of engagement can be a meaningful part of the healing we need after such a long and divisive campaign.
“But walking and throwing objects onto freeways is dangerous for pedestrians and drivers – and it puts a heavy burden on people just trying make it home to their families or get to work safely.”
Garcetti emphasized that the protests were largely peaceful, but said police would take quick action against those blocking traffic on interstates or vandalizing property, including news media vans.
“There is no place for the destruction of property, for the dangerous stopping of traffic,” he said at a press conference Thursday. “Don’t lose the message here. The message is that Los Angeles stands as the great hope.”
Garcetti said 28 protesters have been arrested.
Washington: ‘America has failed’
Meanwhile, protesters in Washington chanted, “No Trump, no KKK, no fascist USA,” as they marched downtown to the Trump International Hotel.
Elsewhere in the nation’s capital, an illuminated sign proclaimed that the US is “Better Than Bigotry.”
Protesters from the group Avaaz display a "Better Than Bigotry" sign outside the White House.
Molly Riley/AP/AVAAZ
“Everything that has been built up has been destroyed,” protester Brian Barto told CNN affiliate WJLA-TV . “America has failed (minorities).”
Supporters: Trump an ‘agent of change’
Trump supporters also rallied, showing their elation outside his current and future homes – New York’s Trump Tower and the White House.
A post shared by Ivan Ferlito (@ivan_ferlito)
Nicholas Elliot, a Georgetown University student, compared Trump’s victory to the United Kingdom’s Brexit vote to leave the European Union.
“I feel pretty good. A year-and-a-half process has ended, and it ended my way,” the Texan told WJLA .
J.D. Vance, author of the book “Hillbilly Elegy,” said Trump supporters in middle America voted for him because so few people – including Clinton or her supporters – had paid attention to their plight.
“They see Trump as an agent of change and (an) agent of protest against folks who they feel have really failed in government,” Vance said.
Now comes the hard part: finding middle ground, CNN’s Marc Preston said.
“All that anger that has been contained outside of Washington, D.C., and New York that we don’t see in middle America … everyone’s starting to see it,” Preston said. “There is a lot of healing that has got to happen.”
CNN’s  Steve Visser, Ray Sanchez, Eliott C. McLaughlin, Sonia Moghe, Paul Vercammen, Ryan Young, Sheena Jones, Rob Frehse, Azadeh Ansari and Susanna Capelouto contributed to this report.
Ad Feedback

