contact
Send a tip
As an independent news organization, Business Insider depends on sources to investigate important institutions. While
            we look for our sources to speak on the record, sources may sometimes rely on us to protect their identities
            where they fear negative repercussions for speaking out.
              Learn how to securely send Business Insider news tips .
Story corrections
Business Insider has a policy of correcting factual errors quickly and transparently. In certain circumstances, we also add to stories after
            they are published when relevant new information emerges. If you believe we have published something that is
            factually wrong, or otherwise unfair, please email us at corrections@businessinsider.com. Write "Correction request" in the subject line. In the body of the email, include a link to the story you
            are concerned about. Give as much supporting evidence as you can for your correction request, so that we can
            quickly adjust stories if need be.
Freelancing
Teams across our newsroom work with freelancers. If you're a freelancer interested in writing for Business Insider's business, tech, and news verticals, click here for details. If you're a freelancer interested in writing for Business Insider's lifestyle, entertainment, health, or parenting verticals, click here for details.
Careers at Business Insider
If you're interested in learning more about working at Business Insider, check out our careers page for a complete list of open roles.
Permissions
PARS International is the authorized reprint, permissions, and licensing agent for Business Insider, offering a full
            suite of products and services ranging from logo, quote, and accolade licensing to article reprints
            (hardcopy and digital) to plaques, posters, and content permissions. If you would like to request use or reprint of Business Insider's copyrighted and trademarked content, please fill out the PARS International request form and a representative from PARS will contact you shortly thereafter. Use may be subject to a fee.
Corporate contacts

