The Daily Money delivers our top personal finance stories to your inbox
Twitter said the president's tweet did not violate its rules on COVID-19 misinformation because it did not contain a clear call to action that could cause real-world harm. The company said it would continue to address misleading claims that directly contradict the guidance of health officials.
Hear more Trump administration COVID-19 updates on the latest 5 Things podcast
Facebook did not respond to requests for comment. It has said it does not permit posts about COVID-19 that could directly cause physical harm and would redirect users to an information center about the virus.
Neither social media company has been entirely hands-off with the president. Twitter has labeled Trump's tweets and in August, Facebook and Twitter removed a video clip shared by Trump that showed him saying during a Fox News interview that children are “almost immune" from COVID-19.
Trump, QAnon, Russia: Facebook, Twitter, YouTube brace for a turbulent election and post-election cycle
"Are you kidding me?" Bob Wachter, chair of the UCSF Department of Medicine, responded to the president on Twitter. "After 210,000 deaths in the U.S. & 1 million deaths worldwide? This either shows a breathtakingly callous, inhumane & counterproductive attitude, or he has altered mental status – in which case the 25th Amendment should be invoked."
Social media companies whose platforms were used to amplify falsehoods, conspiracy theories and inflammatory rhetoric in 2016 have been preparing for November’s presidential election for years.
There’s been an alarming rise in domestic meddling from groups such as extremist conspiracy movement QAnon, which are pumping out falsehoods. Foreign actors are stirring up trouble as they did four years ago. And remarks from Trump are threatening to undermine confidence in the election and in public safety during the pandemic.
But journalist Casey Newton, author of the online newsletter Platformer, says "Trump is a problem platforms can't solve."
"To me it seems clear that platforms play some role in contributing to all of these problems – and in some cases, a very large one," he wrote Monday. "But to lay it all at the feet of a Facebook, or a YouTube, or a Twitter, seems too convenient. These platforms are part of a larger information sphere."
Featured Weekly Ad

