Related article They can't march in the streets. So they're protesting in their cars instead
According to KSL, protesters were asked to follow social distancing guidelines and were directed to demonstrate as individuals or families instead of in a large group.
The demonstration, which stemmed from a Facebook group called Utah Walk For Freedom, was meant to demand state and local restrictions be lifted “with appropriate precautions,” the group’s Facebook page said.
Herbert has extended the state’s “Stay Safe, Stay Home” directive through May 1, saying it is working.
“We cannot let up on these measures,” Herbert said in a news release last week , adding that slowing the spread of the virus will allow residents to get “back to work and to a level of normalcy more quickly.”
North Carolina
A group of protesters gathered in Raleigh on Tuesday – a demonstration that was in direct violation of Democratic Gov. Roy Cooper’s executive order, according to the Raleigh Police Department.
“We have God-given rights that are infringed upon right now, as we speak, every day that this state remains closed,” Ashley Smith, an organizer and business owner, told CNN affiliate WRAL .
Protesters demonstrate against the North Carolina coronavirus lockdown at a parking lot adjacent to the state legislature in Raleigh on April 14.
LOGAN CYRUS/AFP via Getty Images
Cooper said Wednesday the state needs to progress in testing and contact tracing in order to lift restrictions. He did not say whether he would extend his current restrictions, which prohibit gatherings of 10 or more people. The order is set to expire on April 29.
One participant, David Engstrom, told WRAL that “the economic disaster that’s going to happen … is going to be worse than any Covid-19 problems that we’ve had.”
At least one person was arrested by State Police, the Raleigh Police Department said on Twitter .
In a statement, the department cited the importance of the “health and wellness of all who live in our community, including the officers who must engage in circumstances such as these. We simply want everyone to be safe during this very serious public health crisis.”
Ohio
In Columbus, demonstrators also gathered outside the statehouse, where they were overheard during Gov. Mike DeWine’s briefing on Monday, CNN affiliate WSYX reported.
Demonstrators carried signs and bullhorns, chanting, “Reopen Ohio,” WSYX reported.
DeWine, a Republican, acknowledged critics’ frustration on Twitter Tuesday , saying, “I get it. But it’s not going to do businesses and employees any good if we get it wrong. If we get it wrong, we’ll have a medical mess and a mess in the economy. The best thing we can do is get this right.”
Protesters outside the Statehouse Atrium during the State of Ohio's Coronavirus response update on April 13 at the statehouse in Columbus.
Joshua A. Bickel/USA TODAY NETWORK via Reuters
DeWine’s stay-at-home order is set to remain in place until May 1, and includes limiting the number of customers allowed inside stores deemed essential businesses.
There are more than 7,700 cases of coronavirus in the state, and at least 362 people have died.
CNN’s Theresa Waldrop, Amara Walker and Jeff Zeleny contributed to this report.
Ad Feedback

