Chase Peterson-Withorn is a senior editor at Forbes covering wealth.
Follow Author
Apr 23, 2018, 11:00am EDT
Apr 26, 2018, 06:20pm EDT
Share
Add Us On Google
This article is more than 7 years old.
President Donald Trump, first lady Melania Trump, right, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and his wife Akie Abe, left, at Mar-a-Lago club in April 2018. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais)
Seated for photos with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe last Tuesday, Donald Trump couldn’t help but take in his overly extravagant, gilded living room. “Many of the world’s great leaders request to come to Mar-a-Lago,” Trump boasted from an ornate white couch during what was billed as the opening remarks for a bilateral meeting with Abe on trade and North Korea. “They like it; I like it.”
The Palm Beach club has become the president’s favorite weekend getaway. It’s also one of the best investments he’s ever made.
Trump purchased Mar-a-Lago in 1985 for about $10 million—$5 million for the massive home, a reported $3 million for its lavish furnishings, plus another $2 million for 400 feet of prime beachfront directly across the street. Today Forbes values Mar-a-Lago—admittedly one of the most difficult assets in the Trump portfolio to price—at $160 million, or 16 times what Trump paid for it. It’s unclear how much money the president has invested in, or taken out of, the property over the years.
That return beats even the S&P 500, which has produced a 12x return over the same period. For that, the president can thank rising Palm Beach property values over the past three decades and the business he has made out of turning the estate into a private club and, now, the “Southern White House.”
Built as a winter estate for cereal heiress Marjorie Merriweather Post during Florida’s 1920s land boom, the home was lavish even in those extravagant days. Post shipped in three boat loads of stone from Genoa, Italy for the exterior walls, installed a gold-leaf ceiling modeled after the "Thousand-Wing Ceiling" in Venice’s Accademia Gallery and imported 16th-century Roman busts for the entrance hall. In all, she put up a 58-bedroom home on 17 manicured acres of putting greens, citrus groves and greenhouses.
When Post died in 1973, she offered Mar-a-Lago to the federal government for use as a presidential retreat. But in 1981, facing massive maintenance costs, the government gave the estate to the Marjorie Merriweather Post Foundation, which sold it to Trump four years later for about $10 million.
In 1995 Trump turned it into a private club for Palm Beach’s jetset crowd, with an oceanfront swimming pool, beauty salon, spa, and tennis and croquet courts. In January 2005 he added a 20,000-square-foot ballroom; that same month he married Melania, hosting the reception at the club, with Bill and Hillary Clinton in attendance.
Trump’s frequent visits since becoming president have further boosted the estate’s provenance. In January 2017 Trump staged a photo of himself, purportedly writing his inaugural address at Mar-a-Lago. Three months later he launched missile strikes in Syria while dining with Chinese president Xi Jinping at the club.
Given Mar-a-Lago’s new spot at the nexus of world power, it’s no surprise that business seems to be booming. Following the election, the Trump Organization reportedly doubled Mar-a-Lago’s initiation fee to $200,000. The club’s revenues reached an estimated $29 million in 2016, up 25% from the year prior. And despite dozens of organizations pulling events from Mar-a-Lago, Forbes estimates the place is worth $10 million more than it was before Trump was elected. Those eager (and wealthy enough) to rub shoulders with a sitting president appear to be flocking to the club, hoping to bend the commander in chief’s ear.In the end, Post’s dream of Mar-a-Lago becoming an important presidential retreat came true. And with Trump’s $10 million purchase growing into a $160 million asset that he isn’t above advertising while in office, the president is making out quite nicely too.

