9. "Protect American citizens against invasion "
"What this particular action does is it rescinds the open borders policies of the Biden administration and equips agents and officers of ICE and CBP with the authorities" they need to deport people from the U.S. "It also reaffirms the faithful execution of the immigration laws, prioritizes enforcement actions against criminal illegal aliens and establishes federal Homeland Security Task Forces to cooperate with state and local law enforcement in the removal of gangs, criminals and illegal aliens from the United States," White House officials told reporters on a call previewing the move earlier on Monday.
The latest NPR/PBS News/Marist poll also finds that Americans are evenly split on whether to mass deport people who are in the U.S. without legal status — though divisions fall along party lines. There are also concerns about the practical impact of deportations, including where to house millions of detainees while they await deportation.
10. "Restore" the death penalty
This action directs the attorney general to seek capital punishment for the murder of law enforcement officers and capital crimes committed by those without legal status.
"So as you know, this is about national security, this is about public safety, and this is about the victims of some of the most violent, abusive criminals we've seen enter our country in our lifetime. And it ends today," the officials told reporters on the preview call.
Capital punishment is legal at the federal level, and President Biden had pledged to abolish it — though he never worked with Congress on legislation to do so. Biden did commute the sentences of 37 of the 40 men on federal death row to life without parole last month.
Sponsor Message
Trump had reinstated federal executions during his first term, in 2019, after a 17-year pause.
These efforts may take time — and face challenges
Although Trump has reiterated many of these promises for over a year, they may take weeks or months to implement. Several actions will likely be the subject of legal challenges or need Congress to mobilize new funding that Trump currently does not have.
Departing DHS Secretary Mayorkas contends he delivered border security in the end
"We get into the big question marks. He's talked about using, expanding, detention facilities. That will almost certainly happen," Andrew Selee, president of the nonpartisan Migration Policy Institute, said in an interview with NPR's Morning Edition .
"But whether he'll be able to use military bases or not, or other federal facilities — and whether he will try and use the military itself, and that would require going back to the Alien and Sedition Act of 1798, and that will almost certainly be litigated in the courts," he said.
Trump's challenge: where to house millions of immigrant detainees
In fact, even quickly scaling operations might be difficult for the new administration. An NPR investigation last year found that U.S. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement, the agency responsible for removals, struggled to scale up to Trump's immediate demands during his first term, which included attempts to increase deportations.
Congress must also provide the Department of Homeland Security and other agencies with the funding to execute the policies.
In their final budget request, the Biden administration asked for $19 billion to fund additional personnel, facilities, repatriation capabilities and other enforcement resources along the southwest border .
Lawmakers are expected to take up border security funding as a part of a bigger budget-related measure later this year.

