Coronavirus: The human cost of virus misinformation
27 May 2020
Marianna SpringSpecialist disinformation and social media reporter
Share
Save
Getty Images
A protester's sign casts doubt on the existence of coronavirus during a demonstration in California in early May
A BBC team tracking coronavirus misinformation has found links to assaults, arsons and deaths. And experts say the potential for indirect harm caused by rumours, conspiracy theories and bad health information could be much bigger.
"We thought the government was using it to distract us," says Brian Lee Hitchens, "or it was to do with 5G. So we didn't follow the rules or seek help sooner."
Brian, 46, is talking by phone from his hospital bed in Florida. His wife is critically ill - sedated, on a ventilator in an adjacent ward.
"The battle that they've been having is with her lungs," he says, voice wobbling. "They're inflamed. Her body just is not responding."
After reading online conspiracy theories, they thought the disease was a hoax - or, at the very least, no worse than flu. But then in early May, the couple caught Covid-19.
"And now I realise that coronavirus is definitely not fake," he says, running out of breath. "It's out there and it's spreading."
Brian Lee hitchens
Brian Lee Hitchens thought the virus was a hoax - until he and his wife caught it
Dangerous misinformation
A BBC team has been tracking the human toll of coronavirus misinformation. We've investigated dozens of cases - some previously unreported - speaking to the people affected and medical authorities in an attempt to verify the stories.
The effects have spread all around the world.
Online rumours led to mob attacks in India and mass poisonings in Iran. Telecommunications engineers have been threatened and attacked and phone masts have been set alight in the UK and other countries - all because of conspiracy theories.
And in Arizona, a couple mistakenly thought a bottle of fish tank cleaner contained a preventative medicine.
Poisoned by cleaning products
It was late March when Wanda and Gary Lenius started to hear about hydroxychloroquine.
The couple noticed a similar-sounding ingredient on the label of an old bottle that was lying around their house in Phoenix.
Hydroxychloroquine may have potential to fight the virus - but as research continues, it remains unproven. On Monday, the World Health Organisation halted its use in trials after a recent study suggested it could actually increase the risk of patients dying from Covid-19.
Speculation about its effectiveness started circulating online in China in late January. Media organisations, including Chinese state outlets, tweeted out old studies where it was tested as an anti-viral medicine.
Getty Images
President Trump says he has been taking hydroxychloroquine
Then a French doctor claimed encouraging results. Although doubt was later cast on that study, interest in hydroxychloroquine surged. It was mentioned, with various degrees of scepticism, by a variety of media outlets and influential people including Tesla chief executive Elon Musk and Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro.
It also found its way into White House press briefings - and President Trump's Twitter feed.
Allow X content?
This article contains content provided by X. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read

