How to contact the Guardian
How to contact people and departments at the Guardian and the Guardian website.
All customer service queries must go through customer service to ensure that we can respond to you, see below for Customer Service details.
Couldn’t find what you were looking for?
Content distribution and syndication
Customer Services
For any queries including subscription related queries, please visit our Help centre , where you will also find contact details for your region.
Head Offices
You can find Customer Service contact details on our Help Centre .
UK main office
Please address written correspondence to: The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London, N1 9GU, United Kingdom. The switchboard number for the London office of the Guardian and the Guardian website is: 020 3353 2000 (or if dialling from overseas: +44 20 3353 2000). Please do not use this number for Customer Service queries as our switchboard team will not be able to answer your query or direct you to Customer Service.
US main office
Contact details for the Guardian Australia office
How to contact editorial departments and desks
Please take care to send queries to the correct destination as there is no guarantee that messages will be forwarded.
To send us story tips confidentially
For information on how to contact Guardian journalists securely please read this guide . We recommend you use the Secure Messaging tool in the Guardian app, or our SecureDrop portal .
To contact a member of staff Individual staff, whether editorial or commercial, can be contacted using this email format:
Firstname.lastname@theguardian.com
Letters to the editor Letters for publication in the Guardian should be sent to the addresses below. The sender’s full postal address and phone number are required, for verification only. For further guidance on submitting a letter, click here . Guardian: guardian.letters@theguardian.com
Corrections and clarifications of editorial content – the readers’ editor It is the policy of the Guardian to correct significant editorial errors and handle editorial complaints as soon as possible. The readers’ editors are independent internal ombudsmen and can be contacted as follows:
Elisabeth Ribbans – Guardian global readers’ editor guardian.readers@theguardian.com Guardian readers’ editor page
Please note that queries about subscriptions, vouchers, reader offers, advertising, marketing and other non-editorial areas are not handled by the readers’ editors. These should be addressed to the relevant non-editorial departments. Story suggestions should also be sent to the relevant editorial departments.
Legal complaints Legal complaints should be addressed to our Editorial Legal Services department at: Kings Place, 90 York Way, London, N1 9GU
Moderation For more information about moderation and to contact the moderation team, please see this page .
The Guardian: editorial departments and desks
Arts desk: culture@theguardian.com or arts@theguardian.com
Books competitions and events: books@theguardian.com [This address is used for correspondence about online competitions, poetry workshops, and the like. For all other emails about books, see Review, below]
Business desk and financial staff: financial@theguardian.com
Consumer desk: money@theguardian.com
Consumer investigative column in weekly Money section consumer.champions@theguardian.com
Education desk: education@theguardian.com
Money personal finance section: money@theguardian.com
Music: culture@theguardian.com
News desk, for UK national news: national@theguardian.com
Notes and queries: nq@theguardian.com
Personal finance: see Money and Consumer
Pictures: for emails from readers, agencies and PRs picturedesk@theguardian.com
Pictures: for advisories on film openings, PR openings and similar: photocalls@theguardian.com
Political staff: politics@theguardian.com
Travel desk: travel@theguardian.com
Guardian Foundation
The Guardian Foundation is a charity whose purpose is to promote global press freedom and access to liberal journalism. They work directly with journalists, news organisations, audiences and educators, in schools and across communities to enable change.
Contact The Guardian Foundation here .
Report a suspected security vulnerability
If you spot a potential security vulnerability in the Guardian’s websites and apps, or suspicious Guardian emails/articles/endorsements, we’d be grateful to hear from you. Please send an email to icrt@theguardian.com with the subject line “Suspected security vulnerability”. If possible, include screenshots in your description. We may contact you for more details. Thanks for your help.
Please note we do not operate a bug bounty or responsible disclosure program at present.
Back issues and circulation
For information on ordering a back issue of the Guardian, click here .
If your query concerns UK distribution or retail supplies please contact business.information@theguardian.com . Otherwise all Customer Service queries must go through Customer Service, visit our Help centre for contact details for your region.
Advertisers, sponsorship and e-commerce
To find out more about all advertising and sponsorship opportunities in the Guardian and the Guardian website, click here .
If you have a question or concern about an advert on the site please report the problem here .
Press office
If you are a journalist with a media inquiry, please visit the press office page for the relevant contact information.
Freelance contributions
If you would like to contribute freelance content, please ensure you have read our Contributors’ guide .
Story pitches should be sent to the relevant editorial department, as listed above.
Any queries you have relating to the freelance charter , or other terms and conditions for the supply of content to GNM, should be directed to our Rights department at rights@theguardian.com
Employment and work experience
If you are interested in working for Guardian News and Media, please see our dedicated careers site at theguardian.com/workforus . All current work experience and internship schemes are detailed on this site under the “Other opportunities” heading.
Content distribution and syndication
For permission to re-publish Guardian content, or acquire a licence to re-distribute our content, please visit our Syndication website .
Couldn’t find what you were looking for?

