Trump mentions rape in immigration argument
02:22
Washington CNN —
President Donald Trump wants to be a provocateur again. Why else would he bring up his specious and repeatedly disproven claim that millions voted illegally in California, where he was walloped by Hillary Clinton?
And why would he intentionally recall and brag about one of the single most controversial things he’s ever said (a distinction not thrown around lightly)?
Trump was speaking in West Virginia on Thursday, talking about how he prefers a merit-based immigration system like Canada’s to a lottery-based system like the one in the US.
“With us, it’s a lottery system — pick them out — a lottery system. You can imagine what those countries put into the system. They’re not putting their good ones.
“And remember my opening remarks at Trump Tower, when I opened. Everybody said, ‘Oh, he was so tough,’ and I used the word ‘rape.’ And yesterday, it came out where, this journey coming up, women are raped at levels that nobody has ever seen before. They don’t want to mention that.
“So we have to change our laws. And the Democrats, what they’re doing is just — it’s insanity. I don’t — nobody understands what’s going on.”
Nobody is arguing that the trip from Central America to the US is easy or that women are not attacked or exploited on it. That is a well-documented problem, one that Trump brought up to bolster his own case for tougher immigration laws. CNN, however, has been following the caravan that so concerned Trump and did not witness widespread raping. In fact, CNN has found that many of those participating in the group feel that the caravan, organized by activists, will actually protect against violence and exploitation.
The President did not provide a scintilla of evidence to back up his claim. And what’s truly troubling is that Trump continues to generalize such allegations against a large group of people.
Trump is correct that he mentioned rape when he announced his campaign at Trump Tower in June 2015. But it’s not true that people called him tough. In fact, a lot of people – even Republicans – called him racist at the time.
In case you’ve forgotten, here’s the portion of that Trump Tower announcement speech:
Video Ad Feedback

