Donald Trump 2016 Presidential Campaign
Add Topic
Get to know Donald’s other daughter: Tiffany Trump
Josh Hafner
USA TODAY
A full slate of big names spoke Tuesday at the Republican National Convention , including Paul Ryan, Chris Christie and Mitch McConnell, but Google search results testified that the most intriguing was Tiffany Trump.
“My father is good with advice, as you might guess," she said from the stage Tuesday night. "But he keeps it short and the takeaway is usually the same: to help us find our own way and our own gifts.”
So who is Tiffany Trump?
She’s Donald Trump’s daughter, the younger and less visible one after her half-sister Ivanka Trump became a fixture behind their dad’s podiums.
But like her steak-hawking , hotel-building , reality star dad, Tiffany Trump wears many hats: The 22-year-old is an Ivy League grad, a minor Instagram celebrity (163k followers!) and a one-time aspiring pop singer.
She was raised in California by Trump’s second wife
Trump’s most visible children on the campaign trail — Ivanka, Eric and Donald Jr. — all come from his relationship with his first wife, Ivana Trump. Tiffany Trump comes from his relationship to his second wife, Marla Maples, a once-aspiring actress.Maples has been seen more recently on Dancing with the Stars as well as on the desk of ex-husband Donald Trump:
Tiffany was born two months before her parents’ wedding in 1993, as NBC notes .  After the couple divorced in 1999, Maples raised Tiffany in California — the opposite side of the country from Trump’s New York empire.
"Since I have grown up on the West Coast, it definitely is different than all of them growing up on the East Coast," Tiffany said of her siblings in a 2011 Oprah segment .
"It's a different lifestyle, obviously, California vs. New York. (In) New York, my dad is like the center of the city."
She dropped an electro-pop banger
Tiffany dipped her toes into the music industry with the release of “Like A Bird,” an auto-tuned electro-pop jam released in 2011.  “It’s more of a hobby right now,” Tiffany said of her music in that Oprah segment.
Here are some of the lyrics :
"Feel like I started falling, crawling through the liquid love. You’re cute and you tweeted me, baby you go 'Beep beep beep.' "
She’s a Penn grad, just like dad
Like Donald Trump, who often mentions his time at the Wharton School of Business, Tiffany attended the University of Pennsylvania. She double majored in sociology and and urban studies with a concentration on law, according to People.
She’s a smart kid, apparently ("She's got all A's at Penn, so we're proud of her,” Donald Trump told the magazine ) and graduated in May.
Here is an Instagram photo of her with her older half-sister:
Follow Josh Hafner on Twitter: @joshhafner
Featured Weekly Ad

