Last Updated/Effective Date: January 3rd, 2025
1. OVERVIEW
Please review this Privacy Policy carefully as it describes how Insider, Inc. d/b/a Business Insider (“Business Insider”) and its affiliates and subsidiaries, including eMarketer, Inc. (“EMARKETER,” and collectively with Business Insider the “Company”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) collect, use, and disclose information about you when you interact with us online, via our websites and apps, and offline, in person (collectively, the “Service”).
If you have any questions about our privacy practices, please contact us as set forth in the “Contact Us” section below. If you are a resident of certain jurisdictions, including California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Iowa, Montana, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Oregon, Texas, Utah, Virginia, and other U.S. States with similar Privacy Laws (collectively, "Applicable States"), or located in Europe or the United Kingdom, please see the additional disclosures at the end of this Privacy Policy.
To learn more about our privacy practices with respect to personal information collected by Business Insider and EMARKETER for employment-related purposes, please refer to our Business Insider Employee Privacy Policy and EMARKETER Employee Privacy Policy, respectively. Our Service is for a general audience, is not targeted to children, and does not knowingly collect personal information from children under 13 years of age.
If you have a disability and would like to access this Privacy Policy in an alternative format, please review the Business Insider Accessibility Statement.
2. INFORMATION COLLECTION
For purposes of this Privacy Policy, “personal information” means information that relates to an identified or identifiable individual, household, and/or, depending on your state of residence, device. Depending on how you interact with our Service, this may include collection and processing of personal information including, but not limited to, the categories and types of personal information listed below.
INFORMATION YOU PROVIDE
We collect personal information you provide directly via the Service, including when you:
Use our Service;
Access our content, including our articles, webinars, research reports and podcasts;
Register or update an account;
Request quotes, product demos, support, information, or access to our information products and services;
Subscribe to newsletters, promotional communications, alerts, sales outreach, updates and other materials;
Fill in forms, including when you enter competitions, promotions or surveys;
Register for events, webinars or other content offers; or
Contact us.
The categories of personal information we collect include the following:
Contact Data. We may collect your first and last name, email address, postal address, phone number, and similar contact data.
Company Data. Where you interact with us in a business-to-business context, we may collect your job title and company name, size, email address, phone number, and postal address.
Credentials. When you register for an account with us, we may collect passwords, password hints, and related information for authentication and account access.
Biographic and Demographic Data. Business Insider may collect demographic information you voluntarily provide to us, including your country, age, and gender.
Profile Data. We may collect a personal description, and other profile information you submit.
Payment Data. We use payment processors to collect personal information necessary to process your payment if you make a purchase with us, including your payment instrument number (such as a credit or debit card number), and the security code associated with your payment instrument.  We do not directly collect or maintain full payment card information.
Personal Contacts Data. We may collect personal information you provide about your contacts, including information about other employees at your company.
Content. We collect the content of communications you send to us (such as feedback and questions to customer support), which may include personal information.
Inferences. We may draw inferences from any of the personal information identified and discussed in this Privacy Policy.
Other Personal Information. We may collect other personal information you provide, such as the content provided either in your job application or in your communications with us, including interactions with us online, in-person, or on the phone.
INFORMATION FROM DEVICES USING OUR SERVICES
When you access the Service via a web browser, mobile application, newsletter, or other device, we and other parties use a variety of technologies that automatically collect information about your device and how your device interacts with our Service, including cookies, pixels, device IDs, localStorage, and other similar technologies. Some of these technologies store data that may be considered personal information in the browser or on your device. Other technologies may use network-related or other information to recognize your device (e.g., IP address). The categories of information we automatically collect include the following:
Service Use Data. We collect data about your interaction with our Service, the webpage, newsletter, or services feature you were using before you came to our Service, your web or application request, pages of our websites that you visit, information you search for via our Service, access times and dates, and other similar information.
Activity Information. We collect data when you access and interact with our Services, including browser or device model and settings, operating system, and unique identifiers, clickstream data, cookies and localStorage, browsing history, search history, web-based location, IP address, geolocation, and any other internet usage information our Service may automatically record when you visit.
We use this information for a variety of purposes (further addressed in the “Use of Your Information” section below), including analyzing and enhancing our products and services, personalizing our Service for you, and, for our website users, serving advertising.
For further information on how we use tracking technologies for analytics and advertising and your rights and choices regarding them, please see the “Analytics and Advertising Technology” and “Your Advertising Choices” sections below.
INFORMATION FROM OTHER SOURCES
We may supplement the information we collect with information from other sources, such as publicly available information about your online and offline activity from social media services, analytics and advertising technology companies, advertisers, commercially available sources, information from other companies under a common control (“Company Affiliates”), or clients or business partners with which we offer co-branded services.
Depending on your interactions with us, we may not have collected information from you for each of the categories above. 	We are not responsible for the accuracy of any information provided by other parties or for their policies or practices.
3. USE OF YOUR INFORMATION
We collect and use information for our business and commercial purposes in accordance with the practices described in this Privacy Policy, and as permitted under applicable law. Our business purposes for collecting and using information include:
To operate and manage our Service, including your registration and accounts on our websites.
To provide the products and services you request and purchase, allow you to participate in panels, events, sweepstakes and contests, and carry out the transactions you have requested.
To facilitate the creation and maintenance of, as well as to secure, your membership and/or subscription account.
To provide you with customer support and respond to your questions; this may include the use of chatbots. Please note that the inquiries and responses to those chatbots may be transcribed and retained.
To communicate with you regarding updates, technical notices, orders, security alerts, administrative messages, and information regarding changes to our policies.
To provide, market, and develop our products and services, including to maintain our websites and mobile applications, troubleshoot, conduct data analysis, test and research, and better understand the interests of our users, readers, and subscribers who use our services and products.
To maintain the safety, security, and integrity of our Service, for example, by authenticating users and providing account security and fraud detection. We may also use your information to monitor, detect, and prevent fraud and improper or illegal activity.
To deliver video content to you in the ordinary course of our business.
To conduct market research and develop quality assurance, including to study, develop, and improve our products and services. This may include measuring and analyzing audience traffic, including tracking user interests, trends, and patterns. We may, in accordance with applicable law, also aggregate, anonymize, and/or deidentify personal information we collect and use it for any purpose, including product development and improvement activities.
To protect our rights and the rights of others, including protecting ours and our Company Affiliates safety, security, and privacy; complying with legal and regulatory requirements; and investigating or addressing claims or disputes relating to your use of our Service.
To debug our systems, to secure our online services, including our network and websites, and to debug our online services.
To send you surveys, news and/or marketing communications (by email, phone, or text) subject to your marketing preferences, consent, and choices, including information about us or third party offerings we think may be of interest to you.
To protect the security of our products, services, and business.
To help recognize you as a previous visitor and save and remember your preferences and settings and deliver to you appropriate interest-based content.
To conduct internal business purposes, including for data analysis, audits, and enhancing our services. We may also use inferences drawn from personal information, as permitted by applicable law, to create a profile reflecting your preferences so we can tailor our services to you.
To enhance and personalize our Service, products and our marketing efforts.
To develop and serve advertisements on our website or through e-mails or other communications.
To conduct marketing research.
We may also use your information with your consent, including, to administer promotions you have entered and fulfill any other purpose disclosed to you and with your consent.
Notwithstanding the above, we may use information that does not identify you (including information that has been aggregated or deidentified), except as prohibited by applicable law. For information on your rights and choices regarding how we use information about you, please see the “Your Advertising Choices” section below.
4. INFORMATION DISCLOSURE
We may disclose some or all of the personal information collected from or about you with any of the following entities and for any of the purposes directly below.
OUR SERVICE PROVIDERS
We engage companies and individuals to perform services on our behalf (e.g., software maintenance services, cloud storage, chatbot providers, order fulfillment, e-mail services, delivery services, database management, analytics, credit referencing, payment processing, and other services) (“Service Providers”). We may disclose some of the information we collect from or about you to our Service Providers, such as information collected automatically from devices you use to connect to our Service. This may include usage and technical information about how users interact with our Service, including activity data such as where you go on our website, how you use different website features, links you click on, and similar information. We may also disclose some of the information that we collect from or about you with other parties in order to process and fulfill your requests for video content offered through our Service, including to provide you with access to localized content and video content recommendations.
These Service Providers have access to your personal information so that they may perform these tasks on our behalf, and they are prohibited by us from using or disclosing your information for any purpose other than to provide this assistance, except to the extent required by law. We may permit our Service Providers to use aggregate information which does not identify you or deidentified data for other purposes, consistent with applicable law.
ADVERTISING PARTNERS
We may provide personal information to third parties, such as advertising partners or other marketing partners who provide services to us.
SOCIAL NETWORKS
Some features of our Service may enable you to post content to social networking services (“SNSs”). If you choose to do this, we will provide information to such SNSs in accordance with your elections. You acknowledge and agree that you are solely responsible for your use of those websites and that it is your responsibility to review the terms of use and privacy policy of the third party provider of such SNSs. We will not be responsible or liable for: (i) the availability or accuracy of such SNSs; (ii) the content, products or services on or availability of such SNSs; or (iii) your use of any such SNSs. Please refer to the “Social Media Services and Technology Integrations” section for more information on the use of Social Media.
AFFILIATES
We may also disclose your personal information to our parent company, subsidiaries, joint ventures, or Company Affiliates.
CLIENTS
We may disclose your personal information to our clients in connection with us processing your personal information on their behalf. For example, if you subscribe to our newsletters and promotional communications, Business Insider or EMARKETER may send you content on behalf of their clients and disclose your personal information to such clients for their own marketing purposes.
BUSINESS PARTNERS AND SPONSORS
We may disclose your personal information to our business partners in connection with offering you co-branded services, selling or distributing our products, or engaging in joint marketing activities. In addition, if you choose to participate in certain of our programs or to receive certain content we make available (e.g., webinar programs), we may disclose your information to participating sponsors, content providers, and related vendors in connection with such programs and content.
FACILITATING REQUESTS
We may disclose your personal information to facilitate your requests such as when you choose to disclose information to a social network about your activities on the Service or participate in a business partner’s program.
PAYMENT SERVICE
In some cases, we may use an unaffiliated payment service to allow you to purchase a product or make payments ("Payment Service"). If you wish to purchase a product or make a payment using a Payment Service, you will be directed to a Payment Service webpage. Any information that you provide to a Payment Service will be subject to the applicable Payment Service’s privacy policy, rather than this Privacy Policy. We have no control over, and are not responsible for, any Payment Service’s use of information collected through any Payment Service. If you purchase one of our services, we and/or Payment Service provider(s) may use payment information to help provide the service you purchased. For example, payment information may be used to retrieve account information for a subscriber, to determine whether a subscriber is eligible for promotions, and to detect abuse of our services. In addition, for your convenience, we or our Payment Service provider(s) may enable your payment information to be accessible between Business Insider and EMARKETER in order to process your transaction more efficiently.
VENDORS AND OTHER PARTIES
We may disclose personal information to vendors and other parties, for business and commercial purposes, including analytics and advertising technology companies that measure and improve our service, advertising effectiveness, and enable other enhancements on our website. Vendors or such other parties may act as our Service Providers, or in certain contexts, independently decide how to process your information. For more information on practices related to advertising and analytics, see the “Analytics and Advertising Technology” section below.
COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS, LEGAL PROCESS, AND AUTHORITIES
We reserve the right to disclose your information to respond to valid information requests from government authorities and judicial requests, to investigate potential fraud, or where otherwise required by law. We may disclose your personal information where we believe the disclosure is necessary or appropriate to comply with regulatory or legal requirements, or to protect the safety, rights, or property of ourselves and others and to exercise, establish, or defend our legal rights.
BUSINESS TRANSFERS
Circumstances may arise where, whether for strategic or other business reasons, we may sell, transfer or otherwise disclose some or all of our assets, including your personal information, in connection with a merger, acquisition, reorganization or sale of assets or in the event of bankruptcy.
AT YOUR DIRECTION
We may disclose your personal information at your direction or with your consent.
THE GENERAL PUBLIC
We may disclose personal information with the general public if you choose to disclose personal information when contributing content to our Service through forums, blogs, social features, or the like.
AGGREGATE AND/OR DEIDENTIFIED DATA
Without limiting the foregoing, in our sole discretion, we may disclose information, including aggregate data which does not identify you and/or deidentified personal information, to third parties or affiliates for any purpose except as prohibited by applicable law. To the extent we process deidentified personal information, as defined under applicable law, we will maintain and use that information in deidentified form and will not attempt to reidentify the information except as permitted by applicable law.
5. OTHER PARTIES
Our Service contains links to, or content from, other parties' websites, products and services. The fact that we link to a website or display an advertisement or other parties' content is not an endorsement, authorization or representation of our affiliation with any of those other parties, nor is it an endorsement of their privacy or information security policies or practices.
We do not exercise control over other parties’ websites, products or services, and whether they store information in the U.S. or elsewhere. These other products and services may place their own cookies or other technologies on your computer or other device, collect data, or solicit information from you while you are exploring their websites, products, or services. Other persons and entities follow different rules regarding the use or disclosure of the information you submit to them or they collect from you. We encourage you to learn about the privacy practices of those other parties.
6. SOCIAL MEDIA SERVICES AND TECHNOLOGY INTEGRATIONS
BLOGS, SOCIAL MEDIA AND OTHER PUBLIC FORUMS
We may offer blogs, social media profiles, message boards, bulletin boards, or similar public forums where you and other users of our Service can post content or otherwise communicate. If you post personal information on a public forum, we will assume you intend to make that personal information public. We may use your name to identify you with a posting in a public forum and may use your post on or in connection with our Service (e.g., when using a hashtag associated with Business Insider in a tweet or status update). Any personal information you disclose in a public forum is public information and may be seen or collected by other persons, including third parties that do not adhere to the standards set forth in this Privacy Policy. We are not responsible for events that may arise from the distribution of any information you choose to publicly post or share through our online services.
In addition, to the extent you interact with social networks or other services through the Service (such as “liking” or “sharing” our content or otherwise connecting our Service to a social network), information collected and stored by those other parties through your interaction or pages that contain their tracking technologies remains subject to their policies and practices, including whether they disclose information about you to us, the types of information disclosed, and your choices on what is visible to others.
We are not responsible for and make no representations regarding the policies or business practices of any other parties or their services and encourage you to familiarize yourself with and consult their privacy policies and terms of use.
ANALYTICS AND ADVERTISING TECHNOLOGY
Our Service may contain tracking technologies owned and operated by other parties. For example, we use tracking technologies from analytics services, such as Google Analytics, to help us understand how users access and use the Service. Our app does not use these technologies for targeted advertising or advertising measurement purposes.
We may also work with ad networks, advertisers, agencies, and other technology services to place advertisements on our website and/or other websites and services. These parties may set and access cookies and other technologies on your personal computer and/or device and track certain behavioral information regarding users of your personal computer and/or device. As noted above, these website cookies and other technologies are set to, among other things: (a) track your activities across time and services for purposes of measuring conversions or actions you take, associating different devices you use, and serving ads and/or other content targeted to your interests (“Interest-based Advertising”); (b) prevent you from seeing the same advertisements too many times; and (c) understand the usefulness to you of the advertisements that have been delivered to you.
We may also use audience matching services (which is a type of Interest-Based Advertising) to reach people (or similar audiences) who have visited our website or are identified in one or more of our databases. For example, we may disclose hashed email addresses to an ad partner to determine if there are common matching factors between our data and their data in order to serve you more personalized ads.
As discussed above, vendors and ad partners may act as our Service Providers, or in certain contexts, independently decide how to process your information. We encourage you to familiarize yourself with and consult their privacy policies and terms of use. For further information on your choices regarding these third party tracking technologies, please see the section entitled “Your Advertising Choices” below.
7. YOUR ADVERTISING CHOICES
TRACKING TECHNOLOGIES GENERALLY
Cookies and location-identifying technologies may generally be disabled or removed by tools available as part of most commercial browsers, and in some instances blocked in the future by selecting certain settings. Browsers offer different functionalities and options so you may need to set them separately. Also, you may be able to exercise specific privacy choices, such as enabling or disabling certain location-based services, by adjusting the permissions in your device. Please be aware that if you disable or remove these technologies some parts of the Service may not work and that when you revisit the Service your ability to limit browser-based tracking technologies is subject to your browser settings and limitations.
DO NOT TRACK
Your browser settings may allow you to automatically transmit a “Do Not Track” signal to online services you visit. Note, however, there is no industry consensus as to what site and app operators should do with regard to these signals. Accordingly, unless and until the law is interpreted to require us to do so, we do not monitor or take action with respect to “Do Not Track” signals or other mechanisms. We do, however, respond to global privacy preferences when required by law.
ANALYTICS AND ADVERTISING TRACKING TECHNOLOGIES
You may exercise choices regarding the use of cookies from Google Analytics by going to https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout and downloading the Google Analytics Opt Out Browser Add-on.
Some of the advertisers and vendors that perform advertising-related services for us and our partners participate in the Digital Advertising Alliance (“DAA”) Self-Regulatory Program for Online Behavioral Advertising. To learn more about how you can exercise certain choices regarding Interest-based Advertising, visit https://www.aboutads.info/choices , and https://www.aboutads.info/appchoices for information on the DAA’s opt out program for mobile applications. Some of these companies are also members of the Network Advertising Initiative (“NAI”). To learn more about the NAI and your opt out options for their members, see https://www.networkadvertising.org/choices/.
Please be aware that, even if you are able to opt out of certain kinds of Interest-based Advertising, you may continue to receive other types of ads. Opting out only means that those selected members should no longer deliver certain Interest-based Advertising to you but does not mean you will no longer receive any targeted content and/or ads (e.g., from other ad networks). Business Insider is not responsible for effectiveness of, or compliance with, any third parties’ opt out options or programs or the accuracy of their statements regarding their programs.
Additionally, we may collaborate with our service providers and identity partners ("Identity Resolution Partners") to deliver targeted advertising and identify the different devices and browsers you may use to access our Services. We and our Identity Resolution Partners may facilitate identity resolution by creating probabilistic and deterministic identifiers. These identifiers may use personal information, including your name, email address, phone number, and Activity Information to generate an online identifier reasonably linkable to you and/or your device or browser. For example, we may disclose hashed email address, phone number, or other information about your device to our Identity Resolution Partners, whom may, in turn, return an online identifier that we may store in a first party cookie or similar technology and disclose to our advertising partners to provide you a more personalized advertising experience. These identifiers also help us with fraud detection and security, enforce our Terms of Service, among other things. We are not responsible for the privacy practices of our Identity Resolution Partners, which are separate from our own and not covered by this Privacy Policy.
You may have additional rights related to these technologies depending on your state of residency, as outlined in Section 12 below.
COMMUNICATIONS
If you decide at any time that you no longer wish to receive newsletters or promotional communications from us, please follow any unsubscribe instructions provided in our communications to you, update your user preferences via our subscription management tools on our Service, or contact us as set forth in the section below entitled “Contact Us”, and specify your request. Please note that you cannot opt out of non-promotional e-mails, and we may use your information to contact you with important notifications, such as notices with respect to purchases, safety, or changes to our terms, conditions, and policies. Also, your unsubscribe is limited to the e-mail address or phone number used for that particular subscription and will not affect subsequent subscriptions.
OTHER RIGHTS SPECIFIC TO YOUR LOCATION
Residents of Applicable States (as defined above), the European Economic Area, and the United Kingdom, have specific rights with respect to our collection, use, and disclosure of personal information. Please review our location-specific sections below for more information about those rights.
8. SECURITY AND DATA RETENTION
We employ appropriate security measures designed to protect your information from unauthorized access, alteration, disclosure, or destruction. Please be advised, however, that while we strive to protect your information and privacy, we cannot guarantee or warrant the security of any information you disclose or transmit to us online and are not responsible for the theft, destruction, or inadvertent disclosure of your information.
If you suspect unauthorized use of personal information that you have provided us – such as your account information or its credentials – you should notify us immediately using the information in the Contact Us section of this Privacy Policy.
We will retain your information for the period necessary to fulfill the purposes outlined in this Privacy Policy unless a longer retention period is required or allowed by law. Remember that even after you cancel your account, or if you ask us to delete your personal information, copies of some information from your account may remain viewable in some circumstances where, for example, you have shared information with social media or other services. Because of the nature of caching technology, your account may not be instantly inaccessible to others. We may also retain backup information related to your account on our servers for some time after cancellation or your request for deletion, for fraud detection or to comply with applicable law or our internal security or recordkeeping policies. It may not always be possible to completely remove or delete all of your information due to technical constraints or contractual, financial or legal requirements.
9. LOCATION OF DATA
Our Services are hosted in and managed from the United States. If you are a user located outside the United States, you understand and consent to having any personal information processed in the United States or in any other country in which we have facilities or in which we engage service providers. The United States and other countries’ data protection laws may not be the same as those in your jurisdiction. In certain circumstances, courts, law enforcement agencies, regulatory agencies or security authorities in the United States may be entitled to access your personal information.
To the extent that the Company offers products and services to individuals located in the European Economic Area or United Kingdom, or to the extent the Service is deliberately made available to such individuals, please review the section titled “Additional Disclosures for Data Subjects in Europe and United Kingdom” below for more information about disclosures and privacy rights associated with that activity.
10. CHANGES TO THIS PRIVACY POLICY
We reserve the right to update this Privacy Policy at any time. If we make changes, we will revise this Privacy Policy to reflect such changes and revise the effective date included at the beginning of this policy. We may provide you with additional notice (such as to your e-mail address) if the changes are material. Your use of the Service following any such notice will signify and constitute your assent to and acceptance of such revised Privacy Policy.
11. CONTACT US
If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, including our compliance with applicable law, please feel free to contact us.
EMARKETER directly:

