Inauguration Day is here.
Although President-elect Donald Trump is beginning his second term in office, there are still some historic firsts the Trump administration brings to the White House.
Here's a look.
Donald Trump ties the record for the oldest person sworn into office
Former President Joe Biden, who turned 82 in November, became the oldest person ever sworn into office at age 78 in 2021. However, President-elect Donald Trump ties that record Monday, when he swears in at age 78.
Who is the oldest living president?
Biden is the oldest serving U.S. president. Before his inauguration, Trump is the oldest living former president but that title will soon be claimed by Biden, who is four years older.
Trump is only 22 days older than Bush and 66 days older than Clinton.
How many former U.S. presidents are still alive?
Only four former presidents are alive : Bill Clinton, George W. Bush, Donald Trump and Barack Obama. However, Clinton, 78, is the only former commander-in-chief who was in office during the 20th century.
Who is the youngest living former president?
The youngest living former president is Barack Obama who is 63 years old.
Who is the youngest person to become vice president?
John C. Breckinridge holds the record for the nation’s youngest vice president, according to The New York Times . He was 36 when he took office in 1857 as James Buchanan’s vice president.
However, JD Vance will be the third youngest person to become vice president at 40 years old, per U.S. News & World Report . Richard Nixon was the second youngest person to become vice president in 1953.
Vance, who was born in 1984, will also be the first millennial vice president .
First VP with facial hair in nearly 100 years
Vance will also be the first VP to have facial hair in nearly 100 years, as Charles Curtis last sported it when he was in office from 1929-1933, according to Scripps News .
Trump will be the first president to serve two non-consecutive terms in over 100 years
Trump will the second president in U.S. history to serve two non-consecutive terms, NPR reports .
Grover Cleveland was the first, serving two terms in the White House from 1885-1889 and 1893-1897. He was first elected president in 1884 but was defeated by Republican Benjamin Harrison in 1888. He then defeated Harrison in the presidential election of 1892.
Trump will be the first president with a felony conviction
Trump is the first convicted felon to win a U.S. presidential election . He was found guilty by a jury in New York City on 34 counts of falsifying business records after high-profile witnesses alleged Trump falsified records to conceal unlawfully interfering in the 2016 presidential election through the $130,000 hush money payment made to an adult film star.
On Jan. 10, Trump received an "unconditional discharge," the first-ever criminal sentence for a former or incoming U.S. president. This criminal sentence carries no prison time or probation.
Featured Weekly Ad

