By Leonardo Blair , Senior Reporter
Tuesday, April 19, 2016
Paula White, senior pastor of New Destiny Christian Center and Without Walls International Church, attends the 35th Anniversary Celebration for Bishop T.D. Jakes at the AT&T Performing Arts Center/Winspear Opera House on June 8, 2012, in Dallas, Texas. | (Photo: The Christian Post)
Longtime televangelist and senior Pastor of New Destiny Christian Center in Apopka, Florida, Paula White offered her followers an Easter Sunday deliverance from a spiritual death sentence for a $1,144 "resurrection seed" she says was set by God.
Preaching the story of Lazarus who Jesus resurrected from the dead in John 11:38-44 , White promised believers in a video appeal that if they would sow the seed and have faith, she believed deliverance would come.
"I don't know what is dead. I don't know what the enemy sent a death to. I don't know what decision that caused death to come upon whatever the situation you're facing, but I do know that God has sent me to you to bring resurrection life. To tell you that I believe that as we put our faith together before Easter Sunday on March 27, there's gonna be resurrection life in your life," said White.
"The grave clothes are coming off," she continued. "Whatever residue of death. Whatever residue is holding you back, it is coming off."
White then revealed to her audience that she didn't normally request a specific amount in monetary donations but said God was very specific about the amount required for the so-called resurrection seed.
"There's someone that God is speaking to, to click on that donation button by minimizing the screen. And when you do to sow $1,144. It's not often I ask very specifically but God has instructed me and I want you to hear. This isn't for everyone but this is for someone. When you sow that $1,144 based on John 11:44 I believe for resurrection life," said White.
For those who couldn't afford her specific request for the resurrection seed, White encouraged them to give smaller donations.
"You say, Paula, I just don't have that, then sow $144. I don't have that. Sow $44 but stand on John Chapter 11:44," she asserted.
White then promised that in return for sowing the resurrection seed, donors would receive special prayer cloths that could possible cause special miracles, signs and wonders.
"And when you do, there are prayer cloths that we have anointed that we have prayed over, that are going to be a point of contact. In Acts 19, the Bible says, Paul prayed over these prayer cloths and they brought forth special miracles, signs and wonders. There have been times that I have taken prayer cloths that have been anointed as a point of contact. I put them in my loved ones sneakers, I put them under their bed. I put them on parts of my body that I believe God for healing," said White.
"And it was the most dire, distressed, absolutely devastating circumstance. I would stand in faith that that miracle was gonna come forth and I would watch God do it. God has never failed. I can sit here and say this. There is not anything in my life that I've prayed according to the word of God and I've not seen God answer," she continued.
White was quick to note, however, that donors who sow a resurrection seed should not expect God to respond like a "sugar daddy."
"Cause there are things I've prayed out of ignorance or asked out of my own desire and I said God, but your will be done. 'Cause I knew, His word is His will. See His will is for whatever is dead in your life to come back to life. How do I know? John 10:10. Jesus came to give you life and give you life more abundantly," she said. "So click on and minimize that screen and right now sow your miracle resurrection seed as we stand in faith together and I believe God for your miracle."
Contact: leonardo.blair@christianpost.com Follow Leonardo Blair on Twitter: @leoblair Follow Leonardo Blair on Facebook: LeoBlairChristianPost
You’ve readarticles in the last 30 days.
Was this article helpful?
No
Help keep The Christian Post free for everyone.
Our work is made possible by the generosity of supporters like you. Your contributions empower us to continue breaking stories that matter, providing clarity from a biblical worldview, and standing for truth in an era of competing narratives.
By making a recurring donation or a one-time donation of any amount, you’re helping to keep CP’s articles free and accessible for everyone.
We’re sorry to hear that.
Hope you’ll give us another try and check out some other articles. Return to homepage.
Sponsored

