Updated
          2:02 PM EDT, Tue September 9, 2025
Link Copied!
Donald Trump waits to speak at a 9/11 memorial service in 2017.
Brendan Smialowski/AFP/Getty Images
Trump at age 4. He was born in 1946 to Fred and Mary Trump in New York City. His father was a real estate developer.
Donald J. Trump for President, Inc.
Trump, left, in a family photo. He was the second-youngest of five children.
Donald J. Trump for President, Inc.
Trump, center, stands at attention during his senior year at the New York Military Academy.
Seth Poppel/Yearbook Library
Trump, center, wears a baseball uniform at the New York Military Academy. After he graduated from the boarding school, he went to college. He started at Fordham University before transferring and later graduating from the Wharton School, the University of Pennsylvania's business school.
Seth Poppel/Yearbook Library
Trump stands with Alfred Eisenpreis, New York's economic development administrator, in 1976 while they look at a sketch of a new 1,400-room renovation project of the Commodore Hotel. After graduating from college in 1968, Trump worked with his father on developments in Queens and Brooklyn before purchasing or building multiple properties in New York and Atlantic City, New Jersey. Those properties included Trump Tower in New York and Trump Plaza and multiple casinos in Atlantic City.
NY Daily News Archive via Getty Images
Trump wears a hard hat at the Trump Tower construction site in New York in 1980.
Ted Horowitz/Corbis Documentary/Getty Images
Trump and his family, circa 1986. Trump was married to Ivana Zelnicek Trump from 1977 to 1990, when they divorced. They had three children together: Donald Jr., Ivanka and Eric.
Norman Parkinson Achive/Iconic Images/Getty Images
Trump uses his personal helicopter to get around New York in 1987.
Joe McNally/Getty Images
Trump stands in the atrium of Trump Tower.
Ted Thai/The Life Picture Collection/Getty Images
Trump signs his second book, "Trump: Surviving at the Top," in 1990. Trump has published at least 16 other books, including "The Art of the Deal" and "The America We Deserve."
The Life Picture Collection/Getty Images
Trump dips his second wife, Marla Maples, after the couple married in a private ceremony in New York in December 1993. The couple divorced in 1999 and had one daughter together, Tiffany.
Bob Strong/AFP/Getty Images
Trump putts a golf ball in his New York office in 1998.
Simon Bruty /Sports Illustrated/Getty Images
Trump attends a news conference in 2005 that announced the establishment of Trump University. From 2005 until it closed in 2010, Trump University had about 10,000 people sign up for a program that promised success in real estate. Three separate lawsuits — two class-action suits filed in California and one filed by New York's attorney general — argued that the program was mired in fraud and deception. In November 2016, just days after winning the presidential election, Trump agreed to settle the lawsuits. He repeatedly denied the fraud claims and said that he could have won at trial, but he said that as president he did not have time and wanted to focus on the country.
Bebeto Matthews/AP
Trump and WWE wrestlers Stone Cold Steve Austin and Bobby Lashley get ready to shave Vince McMahon's head after McMahon lost the main event of the night — "Hair vs. Hair" — between McMahon and Trump in 2007. Trump has close ties with the WWE and McMahon, its CEO. After being elected president, Trump picked McMahon's wife, Linda, to serve as the administrator of the Small Business Administration.
Leon Halip/WireImage/Getty Images
Trump is seen on set during the season finale of "The Celebrity Apprentice" in 2009.
Bill Tompkins/Getty Images
Trump poses with Miss Universe contestants in 2011. Trump had been executive producer of the Miss Universe, Miss USA and Miss Teen USA pageants since 1996.
D Dipasupil/WireImage/getty images
In June 2015, during a speech from Trump Tower, Trump announced that he was running for president. He said he would give up "The Apprentice" to run.
Todd Heisler/The New York Times/Redux
Trump — flanked by US Sens. Marco Rubio, left, and Ted Cruz — speaks during a CNN debate in March 2016. Trump dominated the GOP primaries and emerged as the presumptive nominee in May of that year.
Rhona Wise/AFP/Getty Images
Trump delivers a speech at the Republican National Convention in July 2016, accepting the party's nomination for president. "I have had a truly great life in business," he said. "But now, my sole and exclusive mission is to go to work for our country — to go to work for you. It's time to deliver a victory for the American people."
John Moore/Getty Images
Trump faces Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton in the first presidential debate, which took place in Hempstead, New York, in September 2016.
Pool/Getty Images
Trump walks on stage with his family after he was declared the election winner in November 2016. "Ours was not a campaign, but rather, an incredible and great movement," he told his supporters in New York.
Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
Two days after winning the election, Trump meets with President Barack Obama at the White House. Three days after mocking Trump as unfit to control the codes needed to launch nuclear weapons, Obama told his successor that he wanted him to succeed and would do everything he could to ensure a smooth transition. "As I said last night, my No. 1 priority in the next two months is to try to facilitate a transition that ensures our president-elect is successful," Obama said.
Win McNamee/Getty Images
Trump shares a meal in New York with Mitt Romney in November 2016. Trump and his transition team were in the process of filling high-level positions for the new administration, and Romney was reportedly in the running for secretary of state. That job ended up going to Rex Tillerson.
Drew Angerer/Getty Images
Trump arrives for his inauguration ceremony in January 2017.
Scott Olson/Getty Images
The new president kisses the first lady as they dance at one of three inaugural balls. The president, known for his affinity of over-the-top gold fixtures, went for classic Americana with a touch of retro glitz.
Alex Wong/Getty Images
Trump shakes hands with FBI Director James Comey during a White House reception in January 2017. Trump fired Comey a few months later, sweeping away the man who was responsible for the FBI's investigation into whether members of Trump's campaign team colluded with Russia in its election interference. The Trump administration attributed Comey's dismissal to his handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton's email server.
Andrew Harrer/Pool/Getty Images
Trump has a phone conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin, one of several world leaders he talked to after taking office. Joining Trump in the Oval Office, from left, were Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, Vice President Mike Pence, senior adviser Steve Bannon, press secretary Sean Spicer and national security adviser Michael Flynn.
Jonathan Ernst/Reuters/Newscom
Trump points at Sergey Kislyak, Russia's ambassador to the United States, while hosting Kislyak and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, left, at the White House in May 2017. The meeting with Lavrov was the highest-level encounter between the US administration and Moscow since Trump's inauguration.
Alexander Shcherbak\TASS via Getty Images
From right, President Trump, first lady Melania Trump, Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi attend an inauguration ceremony for the Global Center for Combating Extremist Ideology. The facility is in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. See more photos from Trump's first foreign tour in May 2017
Bandar Algaloud/Saudi Royal Council/Handout/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images
Pope Francis stands with Trump and his family during a private audience at the Vatican in May 2017. Joining the president were his wife and his daughter Ivanka.
Evan Vucii/pool/Getty Images
Trump looks up at the sky during the total solar eclipse in August 2017. He eventually put on protective glasses as he watched the eclipse with his wife and their son from the White House South Portico.
Nicholas Kamm/AFP/Getty Images
Trump gestures during his State of the Union address in January 2018. Trump declared that the "state of our union is strong because our people are strong. Together, we are building a safe, strong and proud America."
Win McNamee/Getty Images
Trump holds his notes while hosting a listening session with student survivors of mass shootings, their parents and teachers in February 2018. The visible points included prompts such as "1. What would you most want me to know about your experience?" "2. What can we do to help you feel safe?" and "5. I hear you."
Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron walk to the Oval Office before a meeting at the White House in April 2018. Speaking before US lawmakers from both the Senate and the House, Macron pressed the United States to engage more in global affairs, contrasting with the steps the Trump White House has taken toward isolationism since he came into office.
Ludovic Marin/AFP/Getty Images
Three Americans released by North Korea are welcomed at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland by Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in May 2018. Kim Dong Chul, Kim Hak-song and Kim Sang Duk, also known as Tony Kim, were freed while Pompeo was visiting North Korea to discuss Trump's upcoming summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.
Tom Brenner/The New York Times/Redux Pictures
In this photo provided by the German Government Press Office, German Chancellor Angela Merkel talks with a seated Trump as they are surrounded by other leaders at the G7 summit in Charlevoix, Quebec, in June 2018. According to two senior diplomatic sources, the photo was taken when there was a difficult conversation taking place regarding the G7's communique and several issues the United States had leading up to it.
Jesco Denzel/Bundesregierung via Getty Images
Trump sits with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un during their historic summit in Singapore in June 2018. It was the first meeting ever between a sitting US president and a North Korean leader. At the end of the summit, they signed a document in which they agreed "to work toward complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula." In exchange, Trump agreed to "provide security guarantees" to North Korea.
Kevin Lim/The Strait Times/Handout/Getty Images
A close-up of Trump's shirt cuff reads "45" as he speaks during a Cabinet meeting in June 2018.
Doug Mills/The New York Times/Redux Pictures
Trump announced in July 2018 that Brett Kavanaugh, foreground, was his choice to replace Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy, who retired at the end of the month. Kavanaugh, who once clerked for Kennedy, was confirmed in October 2018.
Michael Reynolds/EPA
Trump and Britain's Queen Elizabeth II inspect a guard of honor during Trump's visit to Windsor Castle in July 2018.
Matt Dunham/WPA Pool/Getty Images
Trump shakes hands with Russian President Vladimir Putin at the end of their summit in Helsinki, Finland, in July 2018. Afterward, Trump said he believed it had significantly improved relations between the two countries. "Our relationship has never been worse than it is now. However, that changed as of about four hours ago. I really believe that," Trump said during a joint news conference. The Putin meeting was the last part of Trump's weeklong trip to Europe.
Kevin Lamarque/Reuters
Rapper Kanye West stands up during his Oval Office meeting with Trump in October 2018. West and football legend Jim Brown had been invited for a working lunch to discuss topics such as urban revitalization, workforce training programs and how best to address crime in Chicago.
Oliver Contreras/Getty Images
A White House staff member reaches for the microphone held by CNN's Jim Acosta as he questions Trump during a news conference in November 2018. Later that day, in a stunning break with protocol, the White House said that it was suspending Acosta's press pass "until further notice." A federal judge later ordered the White House to return Acosta's press pass.
Jonathan Ernst/Reuters
Donald and Melania Trump join former US presidents and their wives at the state funeral of George H.W. Bush in December 2018. In the front row, from left, are the Trumps, Barack and Michelle Obama, Bill and Hillary Clinton, and Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter.
Alex Brandon/Pool/Reuters
Trump and Vice President Mike Pence meet with House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer at the White House in December 2018. In the meeting, part of which was open to the press, Trump clashed with Schumer and Pelosi over funding for a border wall and the threat of a government shutdown. Parts of the federal government did eventually shut down. The shutdown lasted a record 35 days.
Doug Mills/The New York Times/Redux
Pelosi and Pence clap during Trump's State of the Union address in February 2019. Because of the record-long government shutdown, Trump's speech came a week later than originally planned.
Doug Mills/The New York Times/Pool/Getty Images
Trump boards Air Force One in Kenner, Louisiana, in May 2019.
Leah Millis/REUTERS
Trump shakes hands with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un as the two meet at the Korean Demilitarized Zone in June 2019. Trump briefly stepped over into North Korean territory, becoming the first sitting US leader to set foot in the nation. Trump said he invited Kim to the White House, and both leaders agreed to restart talks after nuclear negotiations stalled.
Shealah Craighead/The White House
Trump officially launched his re-election campaign with a rally in Orlando in June 2019.
Mandel Ngan/AFP/Getty Images
Trump speaks to the media on the South Lawn of the White House in June 2019.
Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images
Trump shares a laugh with UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson during a working breakfast at the G-7 summit in Biarritz, France, in August 2019.
Erin Schaff/The New York Times/Redux
Melania Trump greets Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau with a kiss on the cheek prior to a group photo at the G-7 summit in August 2019. The photo quickly circulated on social media.
Carlos Barria/Reuters
In September 2019, Trump shows an apparently altered map of Hurricane Dorian's trajectory. The map showed the storm potentially affecting a large section of Alabama. Over the course of the storm's development, Trump erroneously claimed multiple times that Alabama had been in the storm's path.
Jonathan Ernst/Reuters
Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg watches Trump as he enters the United Nations to speak with reporters in September 2019. Thunberg, 16, didn't mince words as she spoke to world leaders during the UN Climate Action Summit. She accused them of not doing enough to mitigate climate change: "For more than 30 years, the science has been crystal clear. How dare you continue to look away?" Trump later mocked Thunberg on Twitter.
Andrew Hofstetter/Reuters
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky meets with Trump on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly in September 2019. A day earlier, the White House released a transcript of a conversation that Trump had in July with Zelensky. According to the transcript, Trump repeatedly pushed for Zelensky to investigate Joe Biden, a former vice president and potential 2020 political rival. There is no evidence of wrongdoing by Biden. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced that she would be opening a formal impeachment inquiry on Trump. Trump has insisted he did nothing wrong in his phone call with Zelensky, saying there was "no pressure whatsoever." The House impeached him in December, and the Senate acquitted him in February.
Jonathan Ernst/Reuters
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi points at Trump during a contentious White House meeting in October 2019. Democratic leaders were there for a meeting about Syria, and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said they walked out when Trump went on a diatribe and "started calling Speaker Pelosi a third-rate politician." Pelosi said, "What we witnessed on the part of the president was a meltdown." Trump later tweeted this photo, taken by White House photographer Shealah Craighead, with the caption "Nervous Nancy's unhinged meltdown!" Pelosi then made it the cover photo for her own Twitter account.
Shealah Craighead/The White House via Getty Images
Trump holds his notes while speaking to the media in November 2019. Trump repeatedly said he told Gordon Sondland, the US ambassador to the European Union, that he wanted "nothing" on Ukraine. "I say to the Ambassador in response: I want nothing, I want nothing. I want no quid pro quo," Trump said, reading from notes that appeared to be written in Sharpie. "Tell Zelensky, President Zelensky, to do the right thing."
Mark Wilson/Getty Images
Trump holds up a newspaper at the National Prayer Breakfast in February 2020. It was a day after he was acquitted in his impeachment trial.
Oliver Contreras/Pool/Abaca Press/Reuters
Trump looks at a coronavirus model while touring the National Institutes of Health in March 2020.
Doug Mills/The New York Times/Redux
A close-up of Trump's notes shows where the word "Corona" was crossed out and replaced with "Chinese" as he speaks about the coronavirus at the White House in March 2020. After consulting with medical experts and receiving guidance from the World Health Organization, CNN determined that the term "Chinese virus" is inaccurate and considered stigmatizing.
Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post/Getty Images
Trump ripped into NBC News' Peter Alexander, seated, during a White House coronavirus briefing in March 2020. Alexander had asked Trump whether he was giving Americans "false hope" by touting unproven coronavirus drugs. Toward the end of the exchange, Alexander cited the latest pandemic statistics showing thousands of Americans are now infected and millions are scared. Alexander asked, "What do you say to Americans who are scared?" Trump shook his head. "I say that you are a terrible reporter," he replied. "That's what I say." The president then launched into a rant against Alexander, NBC and its parent company, Comcast. "You're doing sensationalism," Trump charged.
Jim Watson/AFP/Getty Images
Trump hands a pen to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell during a bill-signing ceremony for the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act in March 2020.
Erin Schaff/Pool/Getty Images
Trump leaves the White House Rose Garden following a coronavirus briefing in April 2020. During the briefing, Trump threatened to leave after Playboy correspondent and CNN analyst Brian Karem attempted to ask a question about social distancing. "Quiet. Quiet." Trump said. When Karem continued to ask his question Trump interjected, "If you keep talking, I'll leave and you can have it out with the rest of these people. If you keep talking, I'm going to leave and you can have it out with them. Just a loudmouth." It wasn't the first time Trump had lashed out at a reporter during a coronavirus briefing. He has vented his frustrations on several occasions.
Alex Brandon/AP
Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, looks down as Trump speaks in the White House Rose Garden in May 2020. Trump was unveiling Operation Warp Speed, a program aimed at developing a coronavirus vaccine by the end of the year.
Kevin Lamarque/Reuters
Trump holds a Bible outside St. John's Episcopal Church during a photo op in Washington, DC, in June 2020. Part of the church was set on fire during protests the night before. Before Trump's photo op, police cleared out peaceful protesters with rubber bullets, tear gas and flash bangs.
Patrick Semansky/AP
Trump arrives at his campaign rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma, in June 2020. It was his first rally since the start of the coronavirus pandemic, and the indoor venue generated concerns about the potential spread of the virus. About 6,200 people showed up to the BOK Center, which seats 19,199.
Doug Mills/The New York Times/Redux
Trump arrives at Mount Rushmore for his Independence Day celebration in Keystone, South Dakota, in July 2020.
Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images
Trump wears a face mask in July 2020 as he visits the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland. This was the first time since the pandemic began that the White House press corps got a glimpse of Trump with a face covering.
Patrick Semansky/AP
Trump plays catch with former New York Yankees pitcher Mariano Rivera as he greets youth baseball players on the South Lawn of the White House in July 2020.
Evan Vucci/AP
Trump signs executive orders extending coronavirus economic relief in August 2020. It came after Democrats and the White House were unable to reach an agreement on a stimulus bill.
Jim Watson/AFP/Getty Images
Supporters look on as Trump delivers remarks at a rally in Oshkosh, Wisconsin, in August 2020.
Tom Brenner/Reuters
Trump is accompanied by the first lady as he arrives for his nomination acceptance speech in August 2020. "I stand before you tonight honored by your support, proud of the extraordinary progress we have made together over the last four incredible years, and brimming with confidence in the bright future we will build for America over the next four years," Trump said in his speech, which closed the Republican National Convention.
Evan Vucci/AP
Lightning flashes as Trump exits Air Force One in August 2020. He was returning from a campaign rally in Londonderry, New Hampshire.
Doug Mills/The New York Times/Redux
Trump and the first lady pay respects to Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg in September 2020. The president was booed as he appeared near the coffin.
J. Scott Applewhite/AP
Judge Amy Coney Barrett reacts as Trump introduces her as his Supreme Court nominee in September 2020. She was confirmed a month later by a Senate vote of 52-48.
Yuri Gripas/Abaca Press/Reuters
Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden take part in the first presidential debate in September 2020. At center is moderator Chris Wallace, who had his hands full as the debate often devolved into shouting, rancor and cross talk that sometimes made it impossible to follow what either candidate was talking about.
Olivier Douliery/Pool/Getty Images
In October 2020, the president tweeted that he and his wife had tested positive for the coronavirus. He was flown to Walter Reed Medical Center, and he stayed at the hospital for three nights, receiving medical treatment. Trump briefly left the hospital to wave to his supporters from the back of an SUV. A Secret Service agent is seen in the front seat wearing a full medical gown, a respirator mask and a face shield.
Alex Edelman/AFP/Getty Images
Despite his doctors saying he was "not out of the woods yet," Trump removes his mask for a photo-op upon returning to the White House.
Anna Moneymaker/The New York Times/Redux
Trump tosses face masks to the crowd as he takes the stage for a campaign rally in Sanford, Florida, in October 2020.
Jonathan Ernst/Reuters
Trump speaks to NBC News' Savannah Guthrie at his town-hall event in Miami in October 2020. Trump and Biden held separate town halls instead of debating each other in a town-hall format. The schedule change came about after Trump was diagnosed with the coronavirus. The Commission on Presidential Debates proposed a virtual debate, but Trump refused to take part and Biden went ahead with plans for his own town hall. Trump's campaign later arranged its own town hall — on a different network, during the same hour.
Brendan Smialowski/AFP/Getty Images
Trump walks with first lady Melania Trump after a day of campaign rallies in Michigan, Wisconsin and Nebraska in October 2020.
Evan Vucci/AP
Trump speaks at the White House after Election Day came and went without a winner. Trump attacked legitimate vote-counting efforts in his remarks, suggesting that attempts to tally all ballots amounted to disenfranchising his supporters. He baselessly claimed a fraud was being committed. "Frankly we did win this election," he said, despite millions of votes still outstanding. A few days later, Biden was projected as the actual winner.
Evan Vucci/AP
Trump plays golf in Sterling, Virginia, in November 2020. He was at the course when Joe Biden was projected as the winner of the presidential election.
Joshua Roberts/Reuters
Trump, days after losing the presidential election, prepares to deliver an update on the administration's coronavirus efforts. He inched closer to acknowledging he would not be president after January 20, though he stopped well short of recognizing his loss. "This administration will not be doing a lockdown," he said. "Hopefully whatever happens in the future — who knows which administration it will be? I guess time will tell — but I can tell you this administration will not go to a lockdown," Trump said in the White House Rose Garden.
Tasos Katopodis/Getty Images
Trump arrives to speak to supporters at a rally in Washington, DC, in January 2021. His speech included calls for his vice president to step outside his constitutional bounds and overturn the results of the election. A short time later, Trump supporters breached the US Capitol while Congress was meeting to certify the Electoral College's votes for president and vice president. The Capitol was put on lockdown and the certification vote was paused after the rioters stormed the building.
Jacquelyn Martin/AP
Trump talks to the media at the White House one day before he was impeached for a second time. Ten House Republicans joined House Democrats in voting for impeachment, exactly one week after pro-Trump rioters ransacked the US Capitol. The impeachment resolution charged Trump with "incitement of insurrection." Trump likened the impeachment push to a "witch hunt." He said the speech he gave to his supporters on January 6, the day the Capitol was breached, was "totally appropriate." He was acquitted on February 12, 2021.
Gerald Herbert/AP
Trump waves goodbye as he boards Marine One for the last time in January 2021.
Mandel Ngan/AFP/Getty Images
Trump acknowledges his children and other family members on the tarmac of Joint Base Andrews before heading to Florida and skipping the inauguration of Joe Biden. "I will always fight for you," he said in front of a crowd of family and friends. "I will be watching. I will be listening, and I will tell you that the future of this country has never been better. I wish the new administration great luck and great success. I think they'll have great success. They have the foundation to do something really spectacular."
Alex Edelman/AFP/Getty Images
Trump speaks at a Republican convention in Greenville, North Carolina, in June 2021. During his speech, Trump baselessly claimed that his election defeat was "the crime of the century."
Travis Dove/The New York Times/Redux
Trump holds his first post-presidency rally at the Lorain County Fairgrounds in Wellington, Ohio, in June 2021.
Gaelen Morse/Reuters
Trump is seen in the reflection of a camera lens as he appears at the National Rifle Association's annual convention in May 2022. Trump — and other GOP leaders who spoke at the event in Houston — rejected efforts to overhaul gun laws, and they mocked Democrats and activists calling for change.
Mark Abramson/The New York Times/Redux
Trump is seen with former first lady Melania Trump and several other family members as they attend the funeral of his first wife, Ivana, in New York in July 2022.
Brendan McDermid/Reuters
Trump gestures as he departs Trump Tower in New York in August 2022. He was on his way to the New York attorney general's office, where he invoked the Fifth Amendment at a scheduled deposition. Trump was to be deposed as part of a more than three-year civil investigation into whether the Trump Organization misled lenders, insurers and tax authorities by providing them misleading financial statements.
Julia Nikhinson/AP
Trump speaks at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Florida, in November 2022. He announced that he would seek the Republican presidential nomination in 2024.
Jonathan Ernst/Reuters
Trump sits with his defense team at his arraignment in New York in April 2023. The former president pleaded not guilty to 34 felony criminal charges of falsifying business records. It was the first time in history that a current or former US president had been criminally charged. He was convicted in May 2024.
Seth Wenig/Pool/AP
Trump waves to supporters as his motorcade leaves a federal courthouse in Miami in June 2023. Special counsel Jack Smith brought charges against Trump in a case alleging mishandling of classified documents . Trump pleaded not guilty.
Will Lanzoni/CNN
Trump speaks before boarding a plane in Arlington, Virginia, in August 2023. Trump pleaded not guilty to four criminal charges related to his efforts to overturn the 2020 presidential election.
Alex Brandon/AP
This booking photo of Trump was taken in Atlanta in August 2023. Trump was booked on more than a dozen charges stemming from his efforts to reverse Georgia's 2020 election results. His booking number was P01135809. He is the first former US president with a mug shot.
Fulton County Sheriff's Office
Trump attends closing arguments in the civil fraud trial against him, his two adult sons, the Trump Organization and several company executives in January 2024. In September 2023, Judge Arthur Engoron found Trump and his co-defendants liable for fraud for grossly inflating asset valuations on financial statements. The ruling was a significant victory for New York Attorney General Letitia James, who brought a lawsuit alleging that Trump and his co-defendants committed repeated fraud in inflating assets on financial statements to get better terms on commercial real estate loans and insurance policies.
Shannon Stapleton/Reuters
Trump delivers remarks at a campaign rally in Manchester, New Hampshire, in January 2024. Trump won the New Hampshire primary , moving closer to his third straight presidential nomination and a rematch with President Joe Biden in the fall.
Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post/Getty Images
Trump speaks at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Florida, in February 2024, after Engoron ordered Trump and his companies to pay nearly $355 million in the New York civil fraud case . Trump is also barred from serving as an officer or director of any New York corporation or other legal entity in the state for three years.
Rebecca Blackwell/AP
Trump appears with his legal team at the start of his hush money trial , the first criminal trial of a former US president, in April 2024.
Jabin Botsford/Pool/Getty Images
Trump leaves the Manhattan Criminal Court in New York after he was found guilty in his hush money trial in May 2024. Trump was found guilty on 34 charges of falsifying business records, making him the first former president in American history to be convicted of a felony.
Justin Lane/Pool/Reuters
Trump and Biden take part in a CNN presidential debate in June 2024. It was the first time in history that a sitting US president faced a former president in a debate. Biden's poor performance later led to him withdrawing from the race .
Will Lanzoni/CNN
Trump, with blood on his face, raises his fist to the crowd as he is surrounded by Secret Service agents at a campaign rally in Butler, Pennsylvania, in July 2024. Trump was injured in a shooting that the FBI said was an assassination attempt.
Evan Vucci/AP
Trump looks at his running mate, Sen. JD Vance, during the Republican National Convention in July 2024, just two days after surviving the assassination attempt.
Will Lanzoni/CNN
A countdown clock over debate moderators David Muir and Linsey Davis shows how much time Trump has left to answer a question during his presidential debate with Vice President Kamala Harris in September 2024. Harris became the Democratic Party's nominee not long after Biden dropped out of the race .
Win McNamee/Getty Images/File
Elon Musk jumps on stage as he joins Trump during a campaign rally in Butler, Pennsylvania, In October 2024. Trump was returning to the same venue where he narrowly survived an assassination attempt .
Jim Watson/AFP/Getty Images
Trump works the drive-through line as he visits a McDonald's restaurant in Feasterville-Trevose, Pennsylvania, in October 2024.
Win McNamee/Getty Images
Trump speaks at a campaign rally at New York's Madison Square Garden in October 2024.
Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images
Trump speaks from a garbage truck in Green Bay, Wisconsin, in October 2024. Trump was seizing on a garbled remark by Biden that seemed to insult Trump voters as “garbage.” Biden has personally denied calling Trump supporters “garbage,” saying his comment on a video call was misinterpreted. The White House, on cleanup duty, insisted the president was only talking about one person, the comedian who called Puerto Rico a “floating island of garbage” during the Trump rally at Madison Square Garden.
Doug Mills/The New York Times/Redux
Trump appears with his wife, Melania, and son Barron on stage at his election night watch party in West Palm Beach, Florida, in November 2024. “I want to thank the American people for the extraordinary honor of being elected your 47th president, and your 45th president,” he told supporters.
Will Lanzoni/CNN
Biden meets with Trump in the Oval Office a few days after the election in November 2024. The two men shook hands in front of the press, and Biden congratulated Trump and promised him a “smooth transition.” Trump said that while “politics is tough,” it’s “a nice world today.”
Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images
Trump is sworn in as the 47th president of the United States by Chief Justice John Roberts as Melania holds the Bible during his inauguration ceremony in January 2025. The ceremony took place inside the Capitol Rotunda due to dangerously cold temperatures in the nation’s capital.
Morry Gash/Pool/AFP/Getty Images
Trump is joined by Elon Musk and Musk’s 4-year-old son, X, during a question-and-answer session inside the White House Oval Office in February 2025. Trump tasked Musk, the world’s richest man, to lead a sweeping effort to reshape the federal government. Inside the Oval Office, Musk defended his far-reaching moves. “The people voted for major government reform, and that’s what the people are going to get,” he said.
Jim Watson/AFP/Getty Images
Trump, left, and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky talk at the Vatican before the funeral of Pope Francis in April 2025. It was their first face-to-face encounter since a disastrous White House meeting in February .
Ukrainian Presidential Press Office/Handout/AP
The Trumps stand together at the end of a parade in Washington, DC, marking the 250th anniversary of the US Army in June 2025. The president had long pushed for the military parade , which was the largest that the nation’s capital had seen in decades.
Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
Trump addresses the nation at the White House after American warplanes bombed nuclear sites in Iran in June 2025. “Our objective was the destruction of Iran’s nuclear enrichment capacity and a stop to the nuclear threat posed by the world’s No. 1 state sponsor of terror,” Trump said during his four-minute speech from the White House Cross Hall. Behind Trump, from left, are Vice President JD Vance, Secretary of State Marco Rubio and Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth.
Carlos Barria/AFP/Getty Images
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, left, joins Trump and Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi Noem, right, on a tour of a migrant detention facility, dubbed “Alligator Alcatraz,” in Ochopee, Florida, in July 2025. The detention, processing and deportation camp for undocumented migrants is situated in Florida’s Everglades, the vast expanse of marshes and swamps that covers much of the southern part of the state.
Andrew Caballero-Reynolds/AFP/Getty Images
Trump bangs a gavel after signing a sweeping tax and spending cuts package he called his “big, beautiful bill” in July 2025.
Brendan Smialowski/AFP/Getty Images
Trump attends the FIFA Club World Cup final in East Rutherford, New Jersey, in July 2025. Trump helped present medals to players after the match, and he handed the winner’s trophy to Chelsea captain Reece James.
David Ramos/Getty Images
Trump tours the renovation site of the Federal Reserve headquarters in Washington, DC, in July 2025. He was joined by US Sen. Tim Scott, left, and Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell, right. The long-simmering clash between Trump and Powell was on full public display during the tour .
Andrew Caballero-Reynolds/AFP/Getty Images
Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin meet in Anchorage, Alaska, during a summit about Ukraine in August 2025. “There’s no deal until there’s a deal,” Trump pronounced after the meeting, before he and Putin departed the stage without answering questions.
Andrew Caballero-Reynolds/AFP/Getty Images
Trump meets with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in the White House Oval Office in August 2025. Zelensky and seven other European leaders made a short-notice visit on the heels of Trump's Alaska summit with Putin.
Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images
Trump meets with law enforcement and members of the military in Washington, DC, in August 2025. Trump had placed the Washington, DC, police department “ under direct federal control ” and deployed National Guard troops to the nation’s capital.
Nathan Howard/Reuters
Trump and his Cabinet are reflected in a mirror while meeting at the White House in August 2025.
Doug Mills/The New York Times/Redux
In pictures: President Donald Trump
Prev
Next
CNN —
Here’s a look at the life of Donald Trump, the 47th president of the United States.
Personal
Birth date: June 14, 1946
Birth place: New York, New York
Birth name: Donald John Trump
Father: Fred Trump, real estate developer
Mother: Mary (Macleod) Trump
Marriages: Melania (Knauss) Trump (January 22, 2005-present); Marla (Maples) Trump (December 1993-June 1999, divorced); Ivana (Zelnicek) Trump (1977-1990, divorced)
Children: with Melania Trump: Barron, March 20, 2006; with Marla Maples: Tiffany, October 13, 1993; with Ivana Trump: Eric, 1984; Ivanka, October 30, 1981; Donald Jr., December 31, 1977
Education: Attended Fordham University; University of Pennsylvania, Wharton School of Finance, B.S. in Economics, 1968
Other Facts
As Trump evolved from real estate developer to reality television star, he turned his name into a brand. Licensed Trump products have included board games, steaks, cologne, vodka, furniture and menswear.
He has portrayed himself in cameo appearances in movies and on television, including “Zoolander,” “Sex and the City” and “Home Alone 2: Lost in New York.”
For details on investigations into alleged Russian meddling in the 2016 election, visit 2016 Presidential Election Investigation Fast Facts.
Timeline
1970s - After college, works with his father on apartment complexes in Queens and Brooklyn.
1973 - Trump and his father are named in a Justice Department lawsuit alleging Trump property managers violated the Fair Housing Act by turning away potential African American tenants. The Trumps deny the company discriminates and file a $100 million countersuit, which is later dismissed. The case is settled in 1975, and the Trumps agree to provide weekly lists of vacancies to Black community organizations.
1976 - Trump and his father partner with the Hyatt Corporation, purchasing the Commodore Hotel, an aging midtown Manhattan property. The building is revamped and opens four years later as the Grand Hyatt Hotel. The project kickstarts Trump’s career as a Manhattan developer.
1983-1990 - He builds/purchases multiple properties in New York City, including Trump Tower and the Plaza Hotel, and also opens casinos in Atlantic City, New Jersey, including the Trump Taj Mahal and the Trump Plaza. Trump buys the New Jersey Generals football team, part of the United States Football League, which folds after three seasons.
1985 - Purchases Mar-a-Lago, an oceanfront estate in Palm Beach, Florida. It is renovated and opens as a private club in 1995.
1987 - Trump’s first book, “Trump: The Art of the Deal,” is published, and becomes a bestseller. The Donald J. Trump Foundation is established in order to donate a portion of profits from book sales to charities.
1991 - The Trump Taj Mahal files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
1992 - The Trump Plaza and the Trump Castle casinos file for bankruptcy.
1996 - Buys out and becomes executive producer of the Miss Universe, Miss USA and Miss Teen USA pageants.
October 7, 1999 - Tells CNN’s Larry King that he is going to form a presidential exploratory committee and wants to challenge Pat Buchanan for the Reform Party nomination.
February 14, 2000 - Says that he is abandoning his bid for the presidency, blaming discord within the Reform Party.
January 2004 - “The Apprentice,” a reality show featuring aspiring entrepreneurs competing for Trump’s approval, premieres on NBC.
November 21, 2004 - Trump Hotels & Casino Resorts Inc. files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
2005 - Establishes Trump University, which offers seminars in real estate investment.
February 13, 2009 - Announces his resignation from his position as chairman of Trump Entertainment Resorts. Days later, the company files for bankruptcy protection.
March 17, 2011 - During an interview on ABC’s “Good Morning America,” Trump questions whether President Barack Obama was born in the United States.
June 16, 2015 - Announces that he is running for president during a speech at Trump Tower. He pledges to implement policies that will boost the economy and says he will get tough on immigration. “When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending their best…They’re sending people who have lots of problems,” Trump says. “They’re bringing drugs, they’re bringing crime, they’re rapists, and some, I assume, are good people.”
June 28, 2015 - Says he’s giving up the TV show “The Apprentice” to run for president.
June 29, 2015 - NBCUniversal says it is cutting its business ties to Trump and won’t air the Miss USA and Miss Universe pageants because of “derogatory statements by Donald Trump regarding immigrants.”
July 8, 2015 - In an interview with CNN’s Anderson Cooper, Trump says he “can’t guarantee” all of his employees have legal status in the United States. This is in response to questions about a Washington Post report about undocumented immigrants working at the Old Post Office construction site in Washington, DC, which Trump is converting into a hotel.
July 22, 2015 - Trump’s financial disclosure report is made public by the Federal Election Commission (FEC).
August 6, 2015 - During the first 2016 Republican debate , Trump is questioned about a third party candidacy, his attitude towards women and his history of donating money to Democratic politicians. He tells moderator Megyn Kelly of Fox News he feels he is being mistreated. The following day, Trump tells CNN’s Don Lemon that Kelly was singling him out for attack , “You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of her wherever.”

