Effective Date: April 1, 2025
Introduction – About the UID2
The Trade Desk developed the UNIFIED ID 2.0 (“UID2”) service to provide advertisers, publishers, 
        and other organizations in the advertising ecosystem a standardized and technical means to transform email addresses and phone numbers into unique identifiers called UID2s. 
        The UID2 is created by putting an email address or phone number through a series of algorithms to turn it into a string of text and numbers so that it is no longer recognizable as that email address or phone number. 
        Like many other types of identifiers that do not directly reveal your real-life identity, such as cookie IDs, IP addresses, and device identifiers, 
        UID2 identifiers enable companies to gather and combine data across different sites, apps, and other contexts, to share data with each other to facilitate the buying and selling of advertising online, 
        including Targeted Advertising (as defined by applicable laws), and to measure the results of advertising online. This helps advertisers to show ads that are more relevant to you, 
        limits the number of times you see the same ad, and enables publishers to earn more for the same ad, helping fund their online content.
The parties that make up the UID2 ecosystem include participants, operators, and an administrator.
The companies that use the UID2 service are called “participants.” Examples of participants include retailers that want to reach customers with ads for shoes or sweaters, 
          news sites that make money from publishing ads, and advertising technology companies that use data to help advertisers and publishers show better-personalized ads. 
          The Trade Desk acts as a participant in the UID2 service in its capacity as a “demand side platform” or "Platform,” which helps advertisers and their agencies to manage advertising campaigns across many channels. 
          You can read about our privacy practices for our Platform, including as a participant in the UID2 service, in our Platform Privacy Policy.
Participants work with an "operator,” which transforms email addresses and phone numbers provided by participants to create UID2 identifiers on behalf of such participants.
Finally, an “administrator” oversees access to the technology used to generate and maintain UID2 identifiers and hosts the UID2 Transparency and Control Portal where you can express an opt-out choice.
The Trade Desk currently acts as the administrator of the UID2 service, and this UID2 Privacy Policy explains The Trade Desk’s practices concerning data, 
        including personal data or personal information (“personal data”), only in its role as UID2 administrator.
This policy does not cover the practices of the other participants that use the UID2 service. More information on participants’ privacy practices is set out in their respective privacy policies.
UID2 TRANSPARENCY AND CONTROL PORTAL
A core role of the UID2 administrator, which is currently The Trade Desk, is to offer the UID2 Transparency and Control Portal to take in opt-out requests related to UID2s. 
        You can use the Transparency and Control Portal to submit an opt-out request to the administrator. 
        We then make your choice to opt-out of the use of UID2 for targeted advertising purposes available to participants so they can honor your choice.
COLLECTION OF DATA BY UID2 ADMINISTRATOR
In connection with hosting the Transparency and Control Portal:
We collect email addresses and phone numbers users input in the portal to indicate their choice to opt out of targeted advertising based on their 
          UID2 and we hash those email addresses and phone numbers and transform them into the corresponding UID2 to process the opt-out request;
We automatically collect technical information about your visit to the portal, including your IP address, browser, platform type, and device type; and
As the UID2 administrator, we may also receive some of this same information from or on behalf of participants.
Regardless of how we receive this information, we use it for the limited purposes described in the “Use of Data by UID2 Administrator” section immediately below.
USE OF DATA BY UID2 ADMINISTRATOR
As the UID2 administrator, we mainly use the data listed above to process and maintain a record of your opt-out request, including by making your choice to opt-out of the use of UID2 for 
        targeted advertising purposes available to participants so they can honor your choice.
We may also use the information we receive as UID2 administrator:
To provide and administer the Transparency and Control Portal;
To engage in troubleshooting;
To help detect and protect against fraud;
For security purposes; and
Internally, to improve how the UID2 service functions.
For example, if many participants transmit requests to the administrator using an API, we may review how the requests are configured to enable us to process the requests more efficiently.
DISCLOSURE OF DATA BY UID2 ADMINISTRATOR
We disclose the information we receive as UID2 administrator in the following circumstances:
We provide information about your opt-out choice (including, in some cases the UID2 and the opt-out signal) to participants in the UID2 service so they can honor your choice.
We may also disclose the information we collect as UID2 administrator in response to lawful requests from public authorities, including to meet security or law enforcement requirements, 
          and where necessary to protect our own or others’ rights, property, or safety, including for security and fraud detection and prevention.
Finally, we may disclose information in connection with, or during negotiations concerning, transitioning the service to a new administrator (such as an industry organization) or in connection
          with a corporate restructuring, merger, sale of assets, financing, or similar transaction involving The Trade Desk.
We may also make information available among The Trade Desk and our current and future parents, affiliates, 
          and subsidiaries and other companies under common control and ownership for the purposes described in the “Use of Data by UID2 Administrator” section above.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR RESIDENTS OF SPECIFIC STATES
Various states, countries or regions have enacted consumer privacy laws that grant their residents certain rights and require additional disclosures (“Privacy Laws”). 
        If you reside in a state, country or region with effective Privacy Laws, this section applies to you.
As required by certain Privacy Laws, below we use a table to explain the same collection, use, and disclosure activities of the UID2 administrator.
Categories of Personal Data Collected by the UID2 Administrator
Categories of Recipients to which the UID2 Administrator Discloses Personal Data
Use of Personal Data by the UID2 Administrator
Identifiers (such as email address, phone number, IP address, and UID2);
Internet and electronic network information (such as browser, platform type, and device type)
Opt-out information (such as the record of your decision to opt out of UID2)
Participants in the UID2 service, to communicate your opt-out choice.
Public authorities (e.g., law enforcement).
Others, where necessary to protect our own or others rights, property, or safety, including for security and fraud detection and prevention purposes.
To receive and maintain records of opt-out requests and make this choice available to participants;
Provide and administer the Transparency and Control Portal;
Engage in troubleshooting;
Help detect and protect against fraud;
For security purposes; and
Internally, to improve how the UID2 service functions.
The Trade Desk does not knowingly collect or process sensitive personal data in connection with our role as the administrator of the UID2 service.
In our role as administrator of the UID2 service, we store personal data for as long as necessary to carry out the purposes 
        for which we originally collected it, principally to notify participants of your opt-out request and to maintain a record of the same.
Your Privacy Rights
Sales, Sharing, Targeted Advertising: The UID2 administrator (a role that The Trade Desk currently holds) does not engage in “sales,” “sharing,” or use of information for “targeted advertising.” 
        Because the UID2 service enables participants to engage in advertising and related activities, some participants’ activities may constitute use of information for 
        “targeted advertising” or involve “sales” or “sharing” of personal data under certain
Privacy Laws. For that reason, the Transparency and Control Portal provides the opt-out choice described above, and each participant may offer you additional opt-out choices.
To learn more about the opt-out choices The Trade Desk offers in connection with its Platform, please visit our opt out page and read our Platform Privacy Policy.
Access, Correction, and Deletion: If you reside in a state, country or region with effective Privacy Laws, you may have the right to (1) request to know more about and access your personal data, 
        (2) request deletion of your personal data, and (3) request correction of inaccurate personal data; and (4) not to be discriminated against for exercising your privacy rights. 
        To request access, deletion, or correction of personal data that The Trade Desk processes about you in its capacity as the administrator of the UID2 service, please contact us at privacy((at))thetradedesk((dot))com.
Authorized Agents: Authorized agents may submit opt-out requests to the Transparency and Control Portal on your behalf. Additionally, an authorized agent may also submit an access, deletion, or correction request on your behalf. 
        Where a request is submitted via an Authorized Agent, we shall contact the individual who is the subject of the request to verify their own identity and confirm the request.
To submit a request as an authorized agent, please contact us at privacy((at))thetradedesk((dot))com.
Appeals: If your request is denied, you may have the right to appeal such decision by contacting us at privacy((at))thetradedesk((dot))com. 
        If you have concerns about the results of an appeal, you may contact the attorney general or applicable data protection authorities where you reside.
Non-discrimination: The Trade Desk will not discriminate against you for exercising privacy rights afforded to you by law.
CONTACT US
For questions not addressed in this privacy policy or in The Trade Desk’s Platform Privacy Policy regarding Trade Desk’s handling of personal data, you can contact us as follow:
By Mail:
The Trade Desk – Attention Global Data Protection Office
42 N. Chestnut St.,
Email: privacy((at))thetradedesk((dot))com
CHANGES TO THIS POLICY
The UID2 Administrator may change this UID2 Administrator Privacy Policy from time to time and will notify you by revising the effective date at the top of this policy, or providing additional notice in a manner deemed appropriate.
Powered by

