Related article Musk plays politics abroad as world leaders brace for Trump’s return
While Trump has set off global consternation with his new Panama Canal rhetoric, he first broached a tougher line in America’s backyard in his first term. “Here in the Western Hemisphere, we are committed to maintaining our independence from the encroachment of expansionist foreign powers,” Trump told the UN General Assembly in 2018. “It has been the formal policy of our country since President Monroe that we reject the interference of foreign nations in this hemisphere and in our own affairs.”
His policy represented a split with the Obama administration that is consistent with Trump’s backlash politics. In 2013, then-Secretary of State John Kerry told the Organization of American States, “The era of the Monroe Doctrine is over.”
The 21st century Monroe reboot targets China, Russia, Iran and their business, military and intelligence partnerships in nations like Venezuela, Bolivia, Nicaragua and Cuba.
Marco Rubio — a surprising pick for Trump’s secretary of state given his traditionalist foreign policy leanings — is on the same page as his new boss on hemispheric affairs. The Florida senator said at a Foreign Relations Committee hearing in 2022 that China was wielding economic influence in a way that hurt regional economies and boosted cartels that export fentanyl and violence across US borders. “They do this because they know that chaos in Latin America and the Caribbean would severely hurt us, destabilize us, who they view as their primary and central rival,” Rubio said. “We simply can’t afford to let the Chinese Communist Party expand its influence and absorb Latin America and the Caribbean into its private political-economic bloc.”
How Trump’s tough talk could backfire
Trump’s expansionist vision reflects supreme confidence heading into his second term, which he’s determined to use to leave an era-defining mark on America’s global role.
And his personification of the principle of the strong triumphing over the weak might also inform his approach to other global issues — most notably the war in Ukraine. In a striking moment Tuesday, Trump said he understood Russian President Vladimir Putin’s fear that the nation he invaded could join NATO. “Russia has somebody right on their doorstep, and I could understand their feeling about that,” the president-elect said.
The possibility that Trump could accept Russia’s terms was already a concern. His former national security adviser, H.R. McMaster, recorded one moment when Putin drew an analogy between his illegal claims to Ukraine and historic US concerns about its hemisphere. “Putin used his time with Trump to launch a sophisticated and sustained campaign to manipulate him,” McMaster wrote in his book “At War with Ourselves.” He added: “to suggest moral equivalence between U.S. interventions in Latin America and the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Putin cited the ‘Roosevelt Corollary’ to the Monroe Doctrine.”
Trump’s bombast may delight his supporters. But many foreigners think it’s arrogant. An attempt to seize the Panama Canal would be regarded as geopolitical piracy. Invading Greenland would make a mockery of international law.
And Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau — whose already doomed career suffered a final blow because of Trump’s tariff threats — lampooned Trump’s designs on the Great White North on Tuesday. “There isn’t a snowball’s chance in hell that Canada would become part of the United States,” he wrote on X.
This reaction shows the downside of Trump’s approach. His bullying of America’s friends may alienate whole populations. Some foreign policy experts fear American threats and pressure in Latin America may actually push nations closer to China.
And insults about Canada being better off as the 51st state are likely to harden public opinion there against the incoming US president and make it harder for the next prime minister to clinch deals with him.
Trump’s disregard for the other peoples’ patriotism could also poison America’s longest lasting friendships. Not to mention frighten entire populations. “The majority in Greenland find it quite scary and quite uncomfortable … that the US, in a disrespectful way, is showing that they would like to be buying Greenland or controlling Greenland,” Aaja Chemnitz, a member of the Danish parliament and a Greenland resident, told CNN’s Erin Burnett.
“Greenland is not MAGA. Greenland is not going to be MAGA.”
Video Ad Feedback

