From bromance to breakup: How Elon Musk and Donald Trump blew up
In January, Apple's Tim Cook, Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg and Amazon's Jeff Bezos were just some of the business leaders attending Trump's second inauguration. And until the two men fell out this spring , Trump granted Tesla CEO Elon Musk an extraordinary amount of power to dismantle the federal workforce.
Corporate America's uneasy silence has continued despite Trump's aggressive efforts to reshape the U.S. economy through his wide-ranging import taxes, and to bring the Federal Reserve more closely under his control.
Why CEOs are calm about tariffs in public — but 'very discouraged' in private
Many of these policies have worried Wall Street investors, big-company CEOs and the small-business owners who are on the front lines of the tariffs fallout. But even as they try to lobby Trump behind closed doors, many business leaders are refraining from criticizing him or his policies in public.
"Because of the power of this vindictiveness, CEOs are reluctant to poke the bear," Sonnenfeld said.
Trump has warned major automakers not to raise prices and has publicly demanded that Walmart "eat" the cost of his tariffs . He also took credit for Coca-Cola's recent announcement that it would roll out sodas made with cane sugar instead of corn syrup.
Sponsor Message
But last week, he went a step further by demanding the resignation of Intel CEO Lip-Bu Tan. In a social media post that sent the company's shares plunging, Trump alleged that Tan was "highly CONFLICTED" and had problematic ties to China.
From an economic perspective, Trump's demand for Tan's resignation was one of the "most aggressive public statements the president has made," said Meena Bose, a presidential policy expert and director of a Hofstra University center that studies the American presidency.
"So much of President Trump's second term is really charting an independent path, with very little attention to precedent — or in some ways, almost a rejection of precedent," she added.
Tan was able to change Trump's tune by appealing to him in person. After the Intel CEO visited the White House on Monday, Trump declared that Tan's "success and rise is an amazing story."
Intel's shares jumped. The company said in a news release that Tan used the meeting to discuss "Intel's commitment to strengthening U.S. technology and manufacturing leadership. We appreciate the President's strong leadership to advance these critical priorities." A spokesperson declined to comment further.
But soon Trump had picked another corporate target. On Tuesday, he criticized Goldman Sachs CEO David Solomon and told him to "get himself a new Economist." Goldman Sachs Chief Economist Jan Hatzius has repeatedly warned that Trump's wide-ranging tariffs will ultimately increase the prices that U.S. consumers pay and could damage the wider economy.
A Goldman Sachs spokesperson declined to comment. And its investors were less spooked than Intel's; the bank's shares have risen since Trump's post.
Calling for CEOs to take "collective action"
Corporate America is hardly alone in feeling increased heat from the White House. Since taking office in January, Trump has won all kinds of concessions from law firms , universities and media companies seeking U.S. approval for mergers or other business dealings.
Meta founder Mark Zuckerberg, Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, Google CEO Sundar Pichai and Tesla CEO Elon Musk were among the guests at President Trump's second inauguration, in January. During Trump's first term, some of these same executives more openly criticized the president over some of his policies, including over immigration. Chip Somodevilla/POOL/AFP via Getty Images hide caption
toggle caption
Chip Somodevilla/POOL/AFP via Getty Images
Meanwhile, the president is also seeking to undermine the independence of other powerful U.S. entities, including the Federal Reserve . His ongoing campaign against Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell over lowering interest rates preceded his decision this month to fire the head of the government's top statistics agency after it put out a disappointing jobs report. The Bureau of Labor Statistics is responsible for producing the monthly jobs report and for tracking inflation.

