C. A. Bridges Diamond Walker
Palm Beach Post
President Donald Trump signed an executive order to form a task force under Attorney General Pam Bondi and the Department of Justice to "eradicate anti-Christian bias" inside the federal government and prosecute violence against Christians, although he did not provide any examples.
And Trump also issued an executive order forming a White House faith office and appointed controversial Florida pastor Paula White-Cain to lead it. White-Cain, a pastor at StoryLife Church and president of Paula White Ministries, both based in Apopka, has been a longtime friend and personal minister to Trump.
Here are five things to know about Paula White.
More: Trump creates faith office led by controversial Florida pastor. Who is Paula White?
Who is Paula White, Trump's newly appointed head of White House's faith office?
Paula White-Cain, 58, is a pastor, author, and televangelist from Tupelo, Mississippi, known for her role as a spiritual adviser to Donald Trump and other celebrities. Critics accuse her of promoting the prosperity gospel, which she denies. White-Cain has spoken about overcoming a troubled childhood, including abuse and her father’s suicide, before converting to Christianity in Maryland. She co-founded Without Walls International Church in Tampa, which once had 20,000 members before financial struggles led to its bankruptcy in 2014. She now leads City of Destiny Church in Apopka, Florida, and is married to Journey keyboardist Jonathan Cain.
How many times has Paula White been married?
Paula White-Cain has been married three times, first to Dean Knight, then to Randy White, and currently to Jonathan Cain, the keyboardist and songwriter for the rock band Journey, whom she married in 2015.
When did Paula White move to Florida?
Paula White-Cain moved to Florida in the mid-1980s after marrying her second husband, Randy White.
Was Paula White's church investigated?
From 2007 through 2011, the Senate Finance Committee investigated six megachurch televangelists , including White-Cain's ministry Without Walls International Church, that had been accused of misusing charitable, tax-exempt funds.
According to the final report , Without Walls paid salaries for extended family members, owned and operated a private jet and frequently chartered flights including trips to the Cayman Islands and a boxing match in Las Vegas, and paid for down payments on an 8,072 square-foot mansion in Tampa and a $3.5 million condo in Trump Tower in New York City.
No action was taken on the report.
What does Trump's new White House faith office do?
According to the executive order , the new faith office was established to "assist faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship in their efforts to strengthen American families, promote work and self-sufficiency, and protect religious liberty." The office, housed in the Domestic Policy Council, would empower faith-based entities, community organizations and houses of worship to serve family and communities.
The duties of the office would include:
Consult and seek information from experts and various faith and community leaders identified by the Faith Office
Make recommendations to the president regarding changes to policies, programs, and practices that would affect the ability of faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship to serve families and communities
Work with the attorney general to identify concerns about violations of constitutional or federal protection for religious liberty
Coordinate with all other agencies to identify and promote grant opportunities for faith-based entities and help teach them how to procure grants
Help agencies develop and implement training and education about religious liberty exceptions, accommodations, or exemptions
Consult with public and private businesses regarding their policies for employee volunteerism, charitable giving, and payroll deductions
Showcase innovative initiatives by faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship that serve and strengthen individuals, families, and communities
Establish Faith Liasons in every federal agency that does not already have a Center for Faith

