Ethics
The Central Park Five and Trump, explained The five were exonerated of charges related to the brutal assault of a New York jogger in 1989. In the September debate, Trump said they pled guilty, which they did not. They are now suing him.
The Central Park 5 are suing Trump over Philly debate comments
Updated October 21, 20242:40 PM ET Originally published September 11, 20241:30 PM ET
This combination photo shows, clockwise from top left, Raymond Santana, Yusef Salaam, Antron Brown (formerly McCray), Korey Wise and Kevin Richardson, known as Central Park Five. ‎/AP hide caption
toggle caption
‎/AP
Members of the Central Park Five (also called the Exonerated Five) are suing former President Donald Trump for defamation over comments he made during last month's presidential debate, according to a lawsuit filed in federal court on Monday.
The five, Yusef Salaam, Raymond Santana, Kevin Richardson, Antron Brown (formerly Antron McCray), and Korey Wise, were wrongfully convicted in 1989 of a brutal assault on a New York jogger in Central Park. They were just teens then and ultimately spent years in prison for crimes they did not commit before being exonerated by DNA and the confession of a convicted rapist and murderer.
Sponsor Message
But during the September debate at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia, Trump said that at the time the teenagers  “admitted – they said, they pled guilty. And I said, well, if they pled guilty they badly hurt a person, killed a person ultimately.” The victim in the case is still alive and deals with lingering health effects from her attack. The five never pled guilty for the crimes they were charged with.
The lawsuit alleges that Trump defamed the men, "cast them in a harmful false light and intentionally inflicted emotional distress on them," attorney Shanin Specter said in a statement.
"The Plaintiffs seek to correct the record and clear their names once again,” Specter said. The five men are looking for a trial by jury and for Trump to pay an undetermined amount in compensatory damages, punitive damages and other costs, the lawsuit says.
An attorney for Trump is not yet listed on the case.
Prior to the comments Trump made during the debate last month in Philadelphia, there have been a number of times Trump has falsely claimed that the men were responsible for the attack, according to the lawsuit. Following the assault of the jogger in 1989, Trump famously took out full-page ads in the city's major newspapers calling for the return of the death penalty for those responsible — further inciting racial tensions in the city.
Read on to learn more about the case that is making headlines, again.
What happened in April 1989?
In 1989, Trisha Meili was a 28-year-old investment banker out for a jog in Central Park when she was brutally beaten and raped. Following the violent attack, Meili fell into a coma for almost two weeks and retained no memory of the attack.
New York City at the time was dealing with high violent crime rates and the media covered the case extensively. On the same night Meili was attacked, witnesses told media and police that groups of teenage boys attacked passersby and other joggers, robbing and beating them.
Facial expressions spoke volumes when mics were muted in the presidential debate
Police brought in a group of Black and Hispanic teen boys — Brown (then McCray), Richardson, Santana, Wise and Salaam — and subjected them to intense questioning.
"The boys were christened the 'Wolf Pack,' and quickly became symbols of the criminal menace that white New Yorkers felt had captured their city," Poynter said of the media at the time.
Trump jumped on the media circus of the day and purchased his full-page ad in The New York Times and other major city newspapers.
Al Sharpton delivers fiery remarks on race and Trump and brings out Central Park 5
What happened after their arrest?
Brown (then McCray), Richardson, Santana, Wise and Salaam broke down after hours of questioning, confessing on videotape — statements the boys ultimately recanted, saying they were coerced.
“When we were arrested, the police deprived us of food, drink or sleep for more than 24 hours,” Salaam wrote in the Washington Post in 2016. “Under duress, we falsely confessed."
The five pleaded not guilty but were imprisoned and served several years in prison.
Salaam wrote in that 2016 article, "Though we were innocent, we spent our formative years in prison, branded as rapists.”
Sponsor Message
This case is often used by juvenile justice experts as an example of the vulnerability of children and teens who come into contact with the criminal justice system. Their brains are not fully developed and research shows that juveniles are more likely than adults to confess to a crime they did not commit.
The case has also repeatedly been used as evidence of a criminal justice system prejudiced against individuals of color.
It wasn't until 2002 that the five men were exonerated after convicted rapist and murderer Matias Reyes confessed to the crime. Reyes' DNA matched the sample found on Meili.
After their convictions were vacated, the five men received a multi-million dollar settlement from New York City.
The Central Park Five join Reverend Al Sharpton during the Democratic National Convention last month in Chicago. Charles Rex Arbogast/AP hide caption
toggle caption

