Embed
Embed
Transcript
An AI-generated depiction of Donald Trump riding a lion. The image was first posted by a Trump supporter on X before Trump reposted the depiction on his Truth Social account. Trump has embracing reposting AI-generated images created by his supporters. NPR added the borders to the image to make clear the image was AI-generated. @TRUMP_ARMY/screenshot by NPR hide caption
toggle caption
@TRUMP_ARMY/screenshot by NPR
Last week, Donald Trump posted on Truth Social an artificial intelligence-generated image of Taylor Swift in an Uncle Sam outfit, falsely claiming she had endorsed him. The image is clearly fake and was accompanied by other depictions, some also apparently AI-generated, of young women in T-shirts reading "Swifties for Trump."
In fact, Swift has not endorsed any candidate for president this year, and she endorsed Joe Biden over Trump in 2020.
Days later, Trump acknowledged the images weren't real.
Sponsor Message
AI-generated spam is starting to fill social media. Here's why
"I don't know anything about them other than somebody else generated them, I didn't generate them. Somebody came out, they said,' Oh, look at this.' These were all made up by other people," he told Fox Business in response to a question about whether he was worried about a lawsuit from Swift.
"AI is always very dangerous in that way," he continued, saying he has also been the subject of fakes implying he's made endorsements he never did.
But in reality, Trump himself has repeatedly shared AI-generated content on social media in the latest example of how artificial intelligence is showing up in the 2024 election. The Trump campaign did not respond to a request for comment.
Typically, Trump reshares posts from his supporters who have embraced new tools that make it easy to turn quick text descriptions into images, both plausible and fantastic .
An AI-generated image of Donald Trump playing guitar with a storm trooper character from Star Wars that was created by a supporter and posted on X. Trump's supporters often create fantastical images of the former president in all kinds of settings that are shared on social media. NPR added the borders to the image to make clear the image was AI-generated. @amuse/screenshot by NPR/Screenshot by NPR hide caption
toggle caption
@amuse/screenshot by NPR/Screenshot by NPR
The subject of the images they create is often Trump himself: astride a lion , as a bodybuilder , performing at a rock concert with a Star Wars stormtrooper ( really ).
Other times, they mock or smear his opponents — like a recent fake image he shared of what appeared to Vice President Harris addressing a Soviet-style rally , complete with a communist hammer-and-sickle flag.
Meme-ifying 2024: how some young organizers are working to get their peers engaged
"One thing AI in particular is good at doing is taking ideas or claims being made in text and turning them into metaphorical representations," said Brendan Nyhan, a political science professor at Dartmouth College. He says this is an AI-powered spin on the kind of memes, satire and commentary that are a staple of political communications .
"It's chum for the folks who read a lot of political news online and tend to have slanted information diets," he said.
An AI-generated image posted by former president Trump's X account that depicts Vice President Kamala Harris delivering an address before a Soviet-style political convention. Trump's supporters often generate images that denigrate and mock Trump's opponents. NPR added the border to the image to make clear it was generated with AI. @realdonaldtrump/screenshot by NPR hide caption
toggle caption
@realdonaldtrump/screenshot by NPR
Trump supporters embrace AI for jokes, satire
Many of these AI images do not seem to be intended to be taken as literally true. They are often shared as jokes or parodies. Indeed, some of the fake Swifties for Trump pictures Trump posted were labeled as satire by their original creator.
Sponsor Message
They are aimed at an audience of people who are already Trump fans. That's in keeping with Trump's long history of resharing crude memes, bestowing belittling nicknames and making jokes at his rivals' expenses.
Tech giants pledge action against deceptive AI in elections
"These images serve the function of reminding people which side they're on, which politicians they like and don't like, and so forth," Nyhan said.
As AI tools have become widely available, worries have focused on their most malicious uses to deceive voters , like deepfakes of candidates, or photorealistic depictions of events that never happened .

