Embed
Embed
Transcript
President Trump holds up the "No Men in Women's Sports" executive order after signing it in the East Room of the White House in Washington, D.C., on Feb. 5. It became the latest in a series of executive orders focused on transgender rights, many of which also center on curbing "gender ideology." Andrew Caballero-Reynolds/AFP via Getty Images hide caption
toggle caption
Andrew Caballero-Reynolds/AFP via Getty Images
On day one, newly inaugurated President Trump signed an order aimed at eliminating the idea of a "gender identity" separate from sex in the federal government. The order's scope is broad — it rescinds a long list of Biden-era policies, changes "gender" to "sex" on government forms and calls to end funding for "gender ideology."
That phrase, "gender ideology," became one of Trump's favorite slogans on the campaign trail last year.
"I will take historic action to defeat the toxic poison of gender ideology and reaffirm that God created two genders, male and female," he said in an October campaign speech.
Sponsor Message
Now, in that order and in several that followed, the administration is trying to put a longtime political phrase into practice, trying to ensure that the government is not promoting or supporting what it calls "gender ideology." That means first giving the slogan a definition.
And that definition is a paragraph long:
"''Gender ideology' replaces the biological category of sex with an ever-shifting concept of self-assessed gender identity, permitting the false claim that males can identify as and thus become women and vice versa, and requiring all institutions of society to regard this false claim as true. Gender ideology includes the idea that there is a vast spectrum of genders that are disconnected from one’s sex. Gender ideology is internally inconsistent, in that it diminishes sex as an identifiable or useful category but nevertheless maintains that it is possible for a person to be born in the wrong sexed body."
Opponents say that the definition — and therefore the order's implementation across the government — are confusingly loose. To Harper Seldin, a senior staff attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union, an advocacy group focused on civil rights including transgender rights, that looseness is intentional.
"This is written in a way that is meant to be broad, but also with a specific goal, which is to push trans and non-binary people out of civic life," he said.
Trump's anti-trans effort is an agenda cornerstone with echoes in history
To Jay Richards, director of the Richard and Helen DeVos Center at the conservative Heritage Foundation, the definition works.
"'Gender ideology' as it's used in executive order is fairly general, but it's not hard to tease out what's meant by the term by actually looking at the effects and the emphases of the executive order itself," he said.
'Gender ideology' as official policy
People gather to defend transgender rights in New York City on Feb. 3, 2025, protesting against President Trump's executive order signed Jan. 28 to restrict gender transition procedures for people under the age of 19. Charly Triballeau/AFP via Getty Images hide caption
toggle caption
Charly Triballeau/AFP via Getty Images
The term "gender ideology" existed well before Trump started using it. According to Factbase, which archives Trump's public appearances, he first said the phrase publicly in 2022. Transgender and nonbinary people and their allies oppose the term "gender ideology," as it implies a belief system rather than an identity.
Sponsor Message
"If we had an executive order that said 'the left-handed ideology,' people would understand immediately that that was not quite right," said Seldin, at the ACLU. "Being left-handed is just a natural variation. Same with being transgender."

