Journalist shares prediction for Sinclair’s move with Kimmel
4:37
US revokes Colombian president's visa
1:03
Video shows ICE agent drop gun during chaotic arrest
0:42
Hear whether House minority leader thinks a shutdown can be averted
2:05
'Never able to get me': See what Comey told CNN back in May about Trump
0:59
Dozens walk out of UN as Netanyahu speaks
0:20
Trump says Comey's indictment is about justice, not revenge
0:59
Man admits to killing parents in TV interview
1:24
James Comey posts video message after being indicted
1:04
Federal grand jury indicts Former FBI Director James Comey on two charges, declines a third
3:30
Trump says he's 'very disappointed' in Putin for prolonging war
0:39
• Source: CNN
Video Ad Feedback
Christian author on the rapture that didn’t happen: ‘It gives Christianity and the Bible a bad name’
5:04
Noem pressed on Trump calling ICE facility shooter ‘radical left terrorist’
3:13
See what Trump and Epstein’s statue looks like after removal from National Mall
0:34
• Source: CNN
Video Ad Feedback
Man accused of attempting to kill Trump reacts to guilty verdict by trying to stab himself in court
2:42
• Source: CNN
Video Ad Feedback
Why analyst says Trump’s statement on NATO shooting down Russian jets ‘most important’ statement of the day
1:16
Late-night hosts react to news of Kimmel's return
1:35
Fighting wildfires from space: 50+ satellites to track wildfires worldwide
3:06
Israel arms exports boom despite global pressure
4:51
Trump links autism to Tylenol use during pregnancy, contradicting decades of evidence
2:22
Jimmy Kimmel’s show set to return on Tuesday
1:59
Harry Styles spotted at Berlin Marathon
0:35
Trump says he was having a meeting in Oval Office when told about Kirk's shooting
0:54
Kirk's widow describes seeing his body at the hospital
3:59
Roy Wood Jr. jokes about 'call from FCC'
3:06
Britain, Canada and Australia formally recognize a Palestinian state, deepening Israel’s isolation
1:28
Sign out
Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited.

