Visa wait times of over 2 years are keeping Indian travelers out of the US
Tensions escalated in the aftermath. India banned multiple Chinese apps, heightened scrutiny of Chinese investments and direct air routes between the two neighbors were canceled.
Both countries had shut their borders to foreign tourists due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but visa restrictions continued even as global travel began to resume.
China lifted tourist visa restrictions for Indian nationals in March after Beijing and New Delhi announced they would work to resume direct air travel, according to Reuters.
Now India’s reciprocal move is seen as a welcome move by many.
Chinese President Xi Jinping meets with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the sidelines of the 16th BRICS Summit in Kazan, Russia, October 23, 2024.
Shen Hong/Xinhua/Getty Images
“Inbound tourism is going through tough period post Covid, so it is good for us that another market has opened,” according to Sarvjeet Sankrit, founder of the Delhi-based travel agency Ghum India Ghum (Roam India Roam), who said he saw “lots of Chinese tourists” visit the capital before the visa ban.
India lifting restrictions is “a good thing for vehicle owners, guides, and hotel owners,” he said. “Everyone will get more business.”
Chinese national Kate Hu, whose boyfriend is from India, said she is excited at the prospect of finally being able to visit his family.
The Hong Kong-based comedian had already booked tickets to visit India for his sister’s wedding in April when she found out she couldn’t get the visa.
“I lost a bit of money there,” Hu said. “We had talked about getting married just to have the visa, so now I’m happy to hear I won’t have to get married just for a visa,” she joked.
Her boyfriend is currently in India to take care of his sick mother. “If this (news) had come out sooner, then I could have gone with him,” she said.
Pradeep K, a consultant in Delhi called India’s latest move is “a good thing,” adding “people of India and China will get to interact more.”
He said he is excited at the prospect of traveling to China to see pandas.
“Will a diplomatic move on paper change mindsets and bring people closer? Your guess is as good as mine.”

