Will Belichick Survive the Season at UNC? 🤔
Julio Aguilar/Getty Images
Bill Belichick, Jordon Hudson Land 'Us Weekly' Cover, Relationship Details Revealed
Joseph ZuckerSep 24, 2025
The "Chapel Bill" era has gotten off to a rocky start for North Carolina, but head coach Bill Belichick's relationship with Jordon Hudson remains a subject of fascination.
The couple landed on the cover of Us Weekly, and Hudson was the subject of a
Bleacher Report14h
Jaime Harkin, Paola Leva, Stephanie Radvan and Andrea Simpson interviewed a number of people who have crossed paths with the 24-year-old.
Emily Rodriguez, a former cheerleading teammate of Hudson's, called her "a really good teammate and someone I could look up to." She was once an employee of Dougie Freeman, who said she "has a great work ethic and she's a very gifted artist and is patient and gentle."
"Their sentiments bear little resemblance to the Hudson that's portrayed in the media — a conniving vixen who's using Belichick for money (he's worth an estimated $70 million) and as a stepping stone to a career in the spotlight," the Us Weekly story read.
The magazine cited a source who backed up that idea.
"[Jordon] already had money and was living a happy and comfortable life before Bill," the person said.
Mahlon Williams, an acquaintance of Belichick, told Us Weekly the legendary coach seems to be happy in the relationship.
"I have not seen [Bill] smile more than I have seen him smile in the past year," Williams said.
Hudson as been a constant presence during Belichick's public appearances, famously sitting in on his interview for CBS Sunday Morning in April. That might be exactly how the six-time Super Bowl champion wants it.
"I have seen her do very normal, everyday things for him, and I think he appreciates that she takes care of him," one source told Us Weekly. "I would say that his [previous] partners, while very nice and loving, were not as hands-on because they were accustomed to having staff or people helping them, and Jordon does not live that way."
The magazine did, however, throw cold water on the engagement rumors that surfaced in the spring.
"A Belichick source tells Us it's highly unlikely the coach has proposed, noting that Hudson could be telling people they are engaged, even if it's not true," the outlet said.
One source flatly said Belichick "is not going to get married" and "is smarter than that."
For now, the 73-year-old's focus is solely on getting UNC back above .500. The Tar Heels are 2-2 heading into an Oct. 4 game against Clemson.
While the 2025 version of Clemson isn't the same one that was regularly contending for national titles, the Tigers will be the favorites and won't lack for motivation as they try to right the ship.
01:07
Will Belichick Survive the Season at UNC? 🤔
TOP NEWS

