How Long Will the Gaza Deal Stop the Fighting? Tug of War
Hamas and Israel have reached an agreement on a ceasefire and hostage deal in Gaza, providing hope to war-weary Palestinians and family members of Israeli hostages. However, implementation could prove challenging and grim.
 
Guest: Jeremy Diamond, CNN Jerusalem Correspondent 

Follow the One Thing podcast here.
Jan 17, 2025
Did Israel Just Kill a Key Ceasefire Negotiator? Tug of War
The Middle East is on edge following the death of Hamas political leader Ismail Haniyeh inside Iran. While Israel hasn’t commented on the strike, it came just hours after the Israeli military took credit for the assassination of a senior Hezbollah military commander in Lebanon. In this episode, we look at the impact of Haniyeh’s death on Gaza ceasefire negotiations and whether the region is about to tip into all-out war. 
Guest: Tamara Qiblawi, CNN Senior Investigations Writer 
Follow CNN One Thing here.
Aug 1, 2024
One War, Two Stories of Pain & Frustration Tug of War
Israel’s seven-month war against Hamas in Gaza has killed more than 36,000 Palestinians while reducing much of the enclave to rubble. Meanwhile, Israel believes about 125 hostages remain in Gaza after being captured on October 7th. In this episode, we hear from two people dealing with the fallout of this unprecedented war. First, 19-year-old Mahmoud Jarousha tells us about being displaced multiple times inside Gaza and his frustration with not being able to attend school. Then, CNN’s Bianna Golodryga tells us how the mother of a kidnapped Israeli soldier is coping with the unknown.
May 29, 2024
Why the ICC Wants to Arrest Netanyahu and Sinwar Tug of War
On Monday, the International Criminal Court announced it was seeking arrest warrants against Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, among other figures, on charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity. In this episode, CNN’s Christiane Amanpour tells us about her exclusive interview with the court’s chief prosecutor and explains why the news has outraged both Israeli and US leaders.
May 22, 2024
The Complications of Covering the War in Gaza (Live) Tug of War
As the war in Gaza continues, independent media outlets remain barred from entering the enclave without IDF escort, complicating efforts to paint a full picture of the reality on the ground. In this episode, CNN’s Nada Bashir explains how she and her colleagues have been covering the war from afar and the role brave Palestinian journalists on the ground play in that work.  
Recorded live at the Cascade PBS Ideas Festival on May 4, 2024.
May 17, 2024
How Gaza's Wounded Are Trying to Heal Tug of War
Note: this episode contains graphic descriptions of injury. 
As the Israeli military campaign in Gaza continues, the toll on Palestinian women and children is coming into clearer focus. In this episode, CNN's Jomana Karadsheh and Sarah Sirgany tell us about their trip to a special hospital in Qatar where some of the most vulnerable Palestinians are being treated for war wounds.
May 15, 2024
Biden’s Weapons Warning to Israel Tug of War
US President Joe Biden says Biden says he will stop sending bombs and artillery shells to Israel if it launches a major invasion of Rafah. It comes as his administration is set to deliver a report to Congress on whether Israel has violated international humanitarian law during its war in Gaza. In this episode, CNN's Kylie Atwood explains how this moment could be a turning point for US-Israel relations.
May 10, 2024
Israel Enters Rafah. Is a Ceasefire Deal Off the Table? Tug of War
On Tuesday, Israel's military seized the Palestinian side of the Rafah crossing, warning its military operation in the southern city would move forward, even as ceasefire talks continue. Airstrikes have rocked eastern Rafah, displacing many fearful Palestinians yet again. Israel meanwhile says the terms of a ceasefire proposal accepted by Hamas were "far from" meeting its demands. In this episode, CNN's Jeremy Diamond explains how the military pressure is impacting the ongoing talks.
May 8, 2024
A Rare Look Inside Iran Tug of War
Around the world, some students have staged protests in solidarity with pro-Palestinian protestors on US college campuses – including in Iran. Anger against Israel and the US is still simmering after an unprecedented aerial attack from Iran on Israel was foiled. In this episode, CNN's Fred Pleitgen joins us from Tehran and explains how Iranian military officials are evaluating the latest escalation.
May 3, 2024
Will a Ceasefire Deal Stop the Rafah Incursion? Tug of War
Hamas is considering a new framework for a hostage release and ceasefire proposal put forward by Egypt. It comes amid fears that Israel will launch a ground offensive into Rafah whether or not a deal is reached. In this episode, CNN's Becky Anderson tells us about the parameters and examines a longshot push to normalize relations between Saudi Arabia and Israel.
May 1, 2024

