Billy Porter’s serious illness forces Broadway show to close
0:59
Late-night hosts react to news of Kimmel's return
1:35
Fighting wildfires from space: 50+ satellites to track wildfires worldwide
3:06
Meet the waitress competing in an iconic Paris tradition
2:08
Russia revives song contest after Eurovision ban
2:26
Everything you need to know about ‘kissing bug’ disease in the US
2:36
Check out what’s new in the iPhone Air
1:02
What Kimmel said about Charlie Kirk that yanked his show off air
2:44
Look back at Robert Redford's life
3:44
Bad Bunny reveals why US was excluded from his tour
0:46
This year's Emmys host has a twist for winners and their acceptance speeches
2:29
Why Uji’s matcha is the world’s most coveted green tea
1:28
Newly discovered species spotted swimming by underwater camera
0:41
Told he would die, he found his own cure and now he’s saving others
4:01
• Source: CNN
Video Ad Feedback
The DOJ seized this 348-foot superyacht from a Russian oligarch. It could be yours for a mere $100 million
2:02
New Apple watch now detects health condition known as ‘silent killer'
1:03
Crowds line up to pay tribute to designer Giorgio Armani
0:49
Sign out
Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited.

