Health Wellness • 5 min read
What a new Ebola outbreak in DR Congo means for people in the US
By
Sep 24, 2025, 5:48 PM ET
PUBLISHED
Sep 24, 2025, 4:11 PM ET
Travelers to affected health zones in DR Congo should avoid contact with anyone who is ill and watch out for symptoms for 21 days after leaving the area.
MSF/AP
Link Copied!
Follow
The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has issued a new health advisory about the latest outbreak of Ebola virus disease in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Thirty-seven confirmed cases and 19 deaths have been reported as of September 18 during this outbreak.
The CDC also issued a travel health notice on September 8 for Congo, recommending that travelers to the affected health zones avoid contact with ill people and monitor themselves for symptoms of Ebola while in the outbreak area and for 21 days after leaving.
What is Ebola — what causes it, what are the symptoms and how dangerous is it? How is the disease spread? What treatments are available? Is there a vaccine? And what should people know about this outbreak and why the CDC has issued alerts?
To help us answer these questions, I spoke with CNN wellness expert Dr. Leana Wen, an emergency physician and clinical associate professor at the George Washington University. Wen previously served as Baltimore’s health commissioner.
CNN: What is Ebola, and what causes it?
Dr. Leana Wen: Ebola is a serious illness with a high fatality rate in humans. The average case fatality rate is around 50%, meaning 1 in 2 infected people will die, according to the World Health Organization .
Initial symptoms can include fever, joint and muscle aches, severe headache, and fatigue.
John Wessels/AFP/Getty Images
Ebola is caused by a group of viruses that are part of the Orthoebolavirus family. They were discovered in 1976 in what is now Congo. In addition to the Ebola virus, which causes Ebola virus disease, there are also the Sudan virus, Bundibugyo virus and Taï Forest virus that can cause severe illness in humans.
This new outbreak in Congo is caused by Ebola virus. It is the 16th Ebola disease outbreak reported there since 1976.
CNN: What are the symptoms of Ebola, and how soon do they start after exposure?
Wen: The incubation period for Ebola disease is two to 21 days, but the average time between exposure and symptoms is eight to 10 days. Initially, the patient exhibits “dry” symptoms, such as fever, joint and muscle headaches, severe headache, and fatigue. These are nonspecific symptoms that often lead to misdiagnosis with other illnesses such as influenza, malaria or typhoid fever.
Four to five days after symptom onset, patients can progress to “wet” symptoms that are characteristic of Ebola infection. Specifically, individuals may develop gastrointestinal symptoms such as abdominal pain, vomiting and diarrhea; rash; chest pain; as well as bleeding from the eyes, mouth, nose and rectum. The disease may progress to organ failure, seizures, brain inflammation and death.

