Related article ‘Like climbing Mount Everest:’ Inside the grueling world of the Chess World Championship
After standing with his arms aloft in celebration, Gukesh was escorted out the building where he shared a long embrace with his father.
Social media clips showed fans back in India celebrating Gukesh’s victory wildly, cheering and hugging as he became the 18th world chess champion and just the country’s second world champion after Viswanathan Anand.
Afterwards, a jubilant Gukesh admitted he hadn’t initially recognized Ding’s mistake in the final game. But when he realized his Chinese opponent had made the crucial error, he said “it was probably the best moment of my life.”
At 18, he is four years younger than the legendary Garry Kasparov was when the Russian won his first world title in 1985.
Heartiest congratulations to Gukesh for becoming the youngest player to win the World Chess Championship. He has done India immensely proud. His victory stamps the authority of India as a chess powerhouse. Well done Gukesh! On behalf of every Indian, I wish you sustained glory…
— President of India (@rashtrapatibhvn) December 12, 2024
Gukesh added in his press conference: “My journey, it’s been since the time I started playing chess at six-and-a-half, seven (years old). I’ve been dreaming about this moment for more than 10 years.
“Every chess player wants to experience this moment and very few get the chance. To be one of them – I think the only way to explain it is I am living my dream. I would like to thank God first of all. This whole journey starting from qualifying to the (qualifying tournament) Candidates, then coming here, it could only be possible by God. There were so many miracles.
There were scenes of celebration across the world following Gukesh's victory.
Simon Lim/AFP/Getty Images
“And I’m thankful for all the people who have been by my side on this journey. I would like to thank each and every one of them, but probably I will have to prepare my speech first because (with) the kind of emotions I’m feeling right now I’ll say something stupid.”
India jubilant
India has become a major chess powerhouse with a host of young talent storming onto the scene.
Among the young stars India has is Rameshbabu Praggnanandhaa (R Praggnanandhaa), who famously stunned the chess world by beating Carlsen in 2022.
“Pragg,” as he is known to fans, became the youngest international chess master at the age of 10 and the second-youngest grandmaster in the world at 12. Last year, he and his sister, 22-year-old Rameshbabu Vaishali (R Vaishali), became the first-ever brother and sister duo to obtain grandmaster titles.
Congratulations and declarations of pride poured in from across India following Gukesh’s win.
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Gukesh, writing on X : “Historic and exemplary! Congratulations to Gukesh D on his remarkable accomplishment. This is the result of his unparalleled talent, hard work and unwavering determination.
“His triumph has not only etched his name in the annals of chess history but has also inspired millions of young minds to dream big and pursue excellence. My best wishes for his future endeavours.”
Draupadi Murmu, India’s president, said Gukesh’s win “stamps the authority of India as a chess powerhouse.”
Sports figures also lavished the new grandmaster with praise. Anand commended his compatriot for bringing the world title back to India.

