Vice President Vance blames left-wing rhetoric for Dallas ICE facility shooting
From CNN's Alejandra Jaramillo
Vice President JD Vance speaks at ConcordPadgett Regional Airport on Wednesday, in Concord, North Carolina.
Pool/Getty Images North America/Getty Images
Vice President JD Vance responded sharply to the deadly shooting at a US Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility in Dallas on Wednesday, calling it an act of politically motivated violence and directly blaming what he described as inflammatory rhetoric from Democratic leaders and the media.
“We’re still learning a little bit about it,” Vance said during remarks in Concord, North Carolina, “but what we know is that in Dallas, Texas, an ICE facility was opened fire upon by a violent left-wing extremist a person who wrote anti-ICE messaging on their bullets.”
The vice president claimed that the attack was politically driven, saying: “And there’s some evidence that we have that’s not yet public, but we know this person was politically motivated.”
The FBI has said it is investigating the shooting “as an act of targeted violence.” The suspected shooter is Joshua Jahn, according to three sources familiar with the case. Authorities said the shooter was found dead at the scene.
FBI Director Kash Patel posted an image of rounds recovered on X , with one of the five casings in the photo bearing the words “ANTI-ICE” written in blue ink.
Vance went on to accuse figures like California Gov. Gavin Newsom and left-leaning media outlets of vilifying law enforcement and creating an environment that fuels violence.
“When the left-wing media lies about what [ICE is] doing,” he said, “what they’re doing is encouraging crazy people to go and commit violence.”
“You don’t have to agree with Donald Trump’s immigration policies. But if your political rhetoric encourages violence against our law enforcement, you can go straight to hell.”
Link Copied!
ICE acting director says violence against agents has to stop
From CNN's Tori B. Powell
Acting Immigration and Customs Enforcement Director Todd Lyons described today’s shooting as “a tragic incident” that “unfolded so quickly.”
Lyons told Fox News this afternoon that the shooter fired into an open waiting area known as the sallyport, where agents brought in detainees. He said the ICE facility was “a definite target,” adding that windows, doors and vehicles were also fired at.
“It wasn’t directed at the detainees. It wasn’t directed at civilians on the street. It was a definite attack on law enforcement. He was there to attack that building,” Lyons told Fox.
He said everyone is “shook up” by the incident and called for an end to violence against ICE.
Regarding next steps after the Dallas shooting, Lyons told Fox securing the facility and ensuring safety is the agency’s top priority.
“What we got to do first and foremost is protect the men and women of ICE, harden up our facilities, make sure we’re safe,” he said. “Then we really got to target these people that are anti-ICE rhetoric or causing threats and really take a deep dive and see what happened with this gentleman right here.”
Link Copied!
What we know about the suspected Dallas ICE facility shooter
From CNN's Casey Tolan and Curt Devine
Joshua Jahn, the suspect who authorities believe killed a detainee and injured two others at a Dallas ICE facility, was previously charged a decade ago with delivering marijuana, court records show.
Jahn, 29, had lived in a Dallas suburb, according to public records. Three sources told CNN that he is the shooter, and authorities have said the gunman killed himself after opening fire.
In 2016, when he was 19 years old, Jahn was charged with delivering more than one-fourth ounce of marijuana. He pleaded guilty and the case again him was deferred, with Jahn being placed on probation, according to Collin County court records. The charge is classified in Texas law as a “state jail felony,” the least severe type of felony in the state.
Jahn voted in the Democratic primary in March 2020 and hasn’t voted since then, according to records provided to CNN by the Collin County Elections Department. Voters in Texas don’t declare a political party when registering to vote, but choose a party’s ballot when voting in primaries.
The Department of Homeland Security initially said two ICE detainees were dead and another was seriously injured, but later revised the death toll to one without providing further explanation.
This post has been updated with additional information.
Link Copied!
“We are better than this craven act of violence,” Dallas mayor says
From CNN’s Cindy Von Quednow and Jason Morris
Dallas Mayor Eric Johnson speaks during a press conference on April 23, in Dallas.
Julio Cortez/AP/File
Dallas Mayor Eric L. Johnson called for healing and unity after a shooting at an ICE facility left one person dead Wednesday.
“We are better than this craven act of violence,” the mayor said in a statement. “In moments like this, our city must stand together and support one another. We must heal.”
He said violence like Wednesday’s shooting should never happen and that it affected an entire community, not just law enforcement and the victims.
“It is an attack on our community and on our nation’s heritage of civil and democratic discourse,“ Johnson said. “We should all condemn violence intended to serve a political agenda and work together to end it.”
The Department of Homeland Security initially said two ICE detainees were dead and another was seriously injured, but later revised the death toll to one without providing further explanation.
This post has been updated with additional information.
Link Copied!
Key details about the Dallas ICE facility shooting
From CNN staff
Law enforcement agents look around the roof of a building near the scene of a shooting at a US Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in Dallas on Wednesday.
Julio Cortez/AP
A gunman targeted an Immigration and Customs Enforcement field office in Dallas , Texas, this morning, leaving one detainee dead and two others hospitalized in critical condition.
Authorities have said the gunman killed himself after opening fire.
The FBI is investigating the shooting as “an act of targeted violence,” according to Special Agent in Charge Joe Rothrock. None of the people shot were members of law enforcement, he said.
Here’s more on what we know, so far, about today’s shooting:
The gunman: Three sources familiar with the case identified the shooter as 29-year-old Joshua Jahn . Jahn lived in a Dallas suburb, according to public records. Jahn voted in the Democratic primary in March 2020 and hasn’t voted since, according to records provided to CNN by the Collin County Elections Department. The Department of Homeland Security described Jahn as a “sniper” who opened fire “indiscriminately” on the Dallas ICE facility.
The victims: The three detainees who were shot were in the country illegally, had been arrested and were awaiting transfer to a longer-term facility, ICE Deputy Director Madison Sheahan told Fox News. In a corrected statement, DHS said “one detainee is deceased, and two others are in critical condition.”
The shooting: Dallas police received an “assist the officer call” at around 6:40 a.m. local time, Chief Daniel Comeaux said during a news conference today. Sheahan said the gunman fired “indiscriminately” and authorities “found bullets throughout the entire building that had punctured into the facility.” The shooter fired into the ICE facility from the rooftop of another building, authorities have said.
Bullet casings: FBI Director Kash Patel and DHS said bullet casings with “anti-ICE messages” were found. DHS said in a statement, “This was an attack on ICE law enforcement.”
CNN’s Priscilla Alvarez, Leigh Waldman, Chris Boyette, Alisha Ebrahimji, Casey Tolan, Curt Devine and Maureen Chowdhury contributed to this report.
Link Copied!
Sources identify suspect in Dallas ICE facility shooting
From CNN's Priscilla Alvarez and Leigh Waldman
The shooter believed to be responsible for killing one detainee and injuring another at a Dallas ICE facility is Joshua Jahn, according to three sources familiar with the case.
Jahn is 29 years old, one source briefed on the investigation told CNN.
Authorities have said the shooter was found dead at the scene.
Acting ICE Director Todd Lyons confirmed the suspect’s identity in an interview with Fox News on Wednesday afternoon, saying of Joshua Jahn, “he was known to law enforcement.”
Lyons said investigators are “going to get with all his contacts, scrub his social media, maybe go to his parents’ home or where he was living. But they want to drill down and figure out what made him anti-ICE, what made him want to do that, and see if there’s any co-conspirators, see if the facility is still safe, see if anything else is still planned.”
Link Copied!
Dallas ICE detainees were in the country illegally and were to be moved to a long-term facility, Sheahan says
From CNN's Chris Boyette
The three detainees shot at the ICE facility in Dallas Wednesday – one who was killed – had been arrested and were to be transferred to a longer-term facility, ICE deputy director Madison Sheahan told Fox News.
The shooter fired “indiscriminately” at the ICE facility from a rooftop of another building, “including at a van in the sallyport where the victims were shot,” the Department of Homeland Security has said .
The three detainees were in the country illegally and “being processed at this facility and would have been moved to a long-term detention facility,” Sheahan told Fox News.
One detainee was killed and one is in serious condition after the shooting, officials said.
“We are working with our local officers to identify next of kin and make sure those notifications are made. Until that time, I don’t want to jump ahead on any families dealing with this tragedy,” Homeland Security spokesperson Tricia McLaughlin told CNN.
Link Copied!
Shooter fired “indiscriminately" into "the whole building,” deputy ICE director says
From CNN's Chris Boyette
A photo from inside the ICE facility in Dallas show bullet holes in a window after Wednesday’s shooting.
Tricia McLaughlin
Bullet holes are seen in a glass frame after Wednesday’s shooting.
Tricia McLaughlin
The person who shot into the Dallas ICE facility fired “indiscriminately,” according to ICE Deputy Director Madison Sheahan.
“What we do know so far is that the shooter was firing indiscriminately throughout the whole building,” Sheahan told Fox News on Wednesday. “The shooter was at a building nearby, shooting directly into the building, going across the entire length of the building.”
The deputy director added that it was a potentially “very dangerous situation” for law enforcement. No law enforcement personnel were injured, according to Joe Rothrock, special agent in charge of the FBI’s Dallas field office.
“We found bullets throughout the entire building that had punctured into the facility, targeting the entire ICE facility,” Sheahan said.
Link Copied!
Texas governor says immigration enforcement efforts will continue "without interruption" after shooting
From CNN's Elise Hammond
Texas Gov. Greg Abbott speaks during an event in Westlake, Texas, on Wednesday.
KTVT
Texas Gov. Greg Abbott said the shooting at the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement field office in Dallas today will not deter officials from carrying out immigration actions.
“We will not let this cowardly attack impede our efforts to secure the border, enforce immigration law, and ensure law and order,” Abbott said in a statement.
He said agencies like ICE, in coordination with the state’s Department of Public Safety and the National Guard, will continue to “arrest, detain, and deport any individuals in this country illegally — without interruption.”
Calling the shooting “horrific,” the governor said “the ongoing onslaught of violent and subversive rhetoric from the Left” should be denounced.
Link Copied!
"Sniper" shot 3 detainees while firing "indiscriminately" at ICE facility from nearby rooftop, DHS confirms
From CNN's Maureen Chowdhury
The Department of Homeland Security has issued a new statement on the shooting at the Dallas Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility.
Bullet casings with “anti-ICE messages” were found on scene where a “sniper” opened fire and shot three detainees, according to DHS.
“This morning, a sniper opened fire from a nearby rooftop on a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Dallas field office. The shooter fired indiscriminately at the ICE building, including at a van in the sallyport where the victims were shot,” it said.
The image shared by FBI Director Kash Patel shows the bullets connected to the shooting at an Dallas ICE facility on Wednesday morning.
from FBI Director Kash Patel
“The gunman was found with a self-inflicted gun wound,” according to the statement.
One ICE detainee was killed in the shooting, and two others were hospitalized in critical condition, authorities said.
The DHS statement also noted that “shell casings were found with anti-ICE messages on them. This was an attack on ICE law enforcement.”
FBI Director Kash Patel posted about the casings on X earlier. Of the five casings shown in the photo Patel posted, one has the words “ANTI-ICE” written in blue ink.
This post has been updated with additional information.
Link Copied!
"ANTI-ICE" written on bullet casing at scene of Dallas shooting, FBI director says
From CNN's Alisha Ebrahimji
Following a news conference outside the Dallas ICE facility where the head of the FBI field office said rounds were found near the suspected shooter containing “messages that are anti-ICE in nature,” FBI Director Kash Patel posted an image of rounds on X .
The FBI didn’t provide any details during the briefing about what was written on the ammunition until shortly after the news conference.
Of the five casings shown in the photo Patel posted on X, one has the words “ANTI-ICE” written in blue ink.
Link Copied!
Noem: Killing "must serve as a wake-up call"
From CNN's Elise Hammond
Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem is blaming “far-left” rhetoric about US Immigration and Customs Enforcement for the deadly shooting at a field office in Dallas this morning.
“For months, we’ve been warning politicians and the media to tone down their rhetoric about ICE law enforcement before someone was killed,” Noem said in a post on X . “These horrendous killings must serve as a wake-up call to the far-left that their rhetoric about ICE has consequences.”
So far, officials have given little information about a possible motive.
Noem said ICE agents “get up every morning to try and make our communities safer,” and they should not be dehumanized.
One ICE detainee was killed in the shooting, and two others were hospitalized, the Department of Homeland Security said in an afternoon news release.
DHS earlier said two ICE detainees were dead, while another was seriously injured, before revising the death toll to one. The revision by the department was provided without additional explanation.
This post has been updated with additional information.
Link Copied!
1 ICE detainee killed in shooting at Dallas facility, DHS says
From CNN's Priscilla Alvarez
One detainee was killed and two others were hospitalized after a shooting at a Dallas ICE facility Wednesday morning, the Department of Homeland Security said.
Authorities didn’t provide details on the fatality during an earlier press conference but noted that no law enforcement agents were injured or shot.
In a post on X, Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem condemned heightened rhetoric against ICE, saying: “These horrendous killings must serve as a wake-up call to the far-left that their rhetoric about ICE has consequences.”
DHS earlier said two ICE detainees were dead, while another was seriously injured, before revising the death toll to one. The revision by the department was provided without additional explanation.
This post has been updated with additional information.
Link Copied!
Immigration attorney says she was terrified for her clients when she learned of the shooting
From CNN's Priscilla Alvarez
Ruth Harper, an immigration attorney based in Dallas, Texas, reported to the Dallas ICE facility on Wednesday morning for a routine check in for her client, she told CNN Wednesday.
When she arrived, police had blocked off access to the facility and told her there was an active shooter. She said her initial reaction was “terrified” for her clients.
“Usually, they are only there a short time before they are moved to a detention center,” she said.
One of her clients is at the facility; another, who was expected to report for the check in today, was not on site.
Link Copied!
1 killed, 2 injured in ICE facility shooting, according to Dallas police. The shooter is also dead
From CNN's Maureen Chowdhury
A police vehicle is posted at the Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in Dallas on Wednesday.
Jeffrey McWhorter/Reuters
Dallas police said one person is dead and two people are hospitalized with injuries after a shooting this morning at the ICE field office in Dallas.
Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem earlier said the suspect died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.
Multiple law enforcement officials told CNN the person killed was a detainee.
“Today, at approximately 6:40 a.m. (local time), we received a(n) assist the officer call. We responded to the call, got to the scene, and we later learned that we had four individuals that were shot, two of them deceased, including the shooter,” Chief Daniel Comeaux said at the news conference. “DPD quickly was able to locate the shooter who was deceased.”
Link Copied!
"This must stop": Sen Cruz decries violence and "demonizing" rhetoric
From CNN's Maureen Chowdhury
Sen. Ted Cruz speaks during a press conference in Dallas on Wednesday.
Aric Becker/AFP via Getty Images
GOP Sen. Ted Cruz urged politicians to stop using rhetoric that is “demonizing” Immigration and Customs Enforcement and Customs and Border Patrol agents.
“This needs to stop. Violence is wrong. Politically motivated violence is wrong,” Cruz said during a news conference in Dallas following the ICE facility shooting.
Cruz said that this morning’s incident is “the third shooting in Texas directed at ICE or CBP. This must stop. To every politician who is using rhetoric demonizing ICE and demonizing CPB, stop.”
He continued: “To every politician demanding that ICE agents be doxxed and calling for people to go after their families, stop. This has very real consequences.”
Cruz went on to say that he hopes that “every one of us will pray, number one for the law enforcement that are risking their lives to keep us safe; number two, for the health of those who were shot and injured today. We still don’t know the full details of who was injured, but for the families of the victims of this shooting.”
He added that a debate about immigration policies can happen in the halls of Congress “without demonizing each other.”
Link Copied!
FBI investigating shooting as "act of targeted violence"
From CNN's Andy Rose
FBI Special Agent in Charge Joe Rothrock speaks during a press conference in Dallas on Wednesday.
Jeffrey McWhorter/Reuters
The deadly shooting at an ICE facility near downtown Dallas is believed to be a targeted incident, according to the head of the FBI field office in Dallas.
“I can confirm at this time that the FBI is investigating this incident as an act of targeted violence,” said Special Agent in Charge Joe Rothrock.
“Early evidence that we’ve seen from rounds that were found near the suspected shooter contain messages that are anti-ICE in nature,” Rothrock added.
The FBI did not provide further details on what was written on the ammunition.
Link Copied!
No law enforcement officers were injured in the shooting, FBI official says
From CNN's Dakin Andone
None of the people shot in this morning’s shooting at a Dallas ICE facility were members of law enforcement, FBI Dallas Special Agent in Charge Joe Rothrock said, though officials are not yet confirming the identities of the victims.
“This will be an ongoing investigation between us, a number of federal partners and our local partners, again, to ensure that anyone responsible is held accountable,” Rothrock said.
Link Copied!
"Let's be patient" and "remain calm," Dallas mayor urges community
From CNN's Alisha Ebrahimji
Dallas Mayor Eric Johnson asked people to “be patient” and “remain calm” as law enforcement conduct the investigation into Wednesday morning’s shooting at an Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility in Dallas.
“This is an active investigation,” he said. “There’s still a lot of unanswered questions, and I want to encourage all of you to exercise a little bit of restraint and allow them to do their job, to help make sure this continues to be a safe city, and that they can help us figure out what happened here today.”
Link Copied!
Dallas mayor asks the city to "come together" amid "difficult time" nationwide
From CNN's Dakin Andone
Dallas Mayor Eric Johnson speaks to the press on Wednesday.
WFAA
Dallas Mayor Eric Johnson started a news conference about this morning’s shooting at an ICE facility asking everyone to pray for the families of the victims and the recovery for those injured.
“But maybe even more to the point, we are a country and a city that needs prayer,” Johnson said. “I’m going to ask you all to join me also in praying for this city, that we can come together at a time like this, and that we can be there for one another the way we always have … to support one another, help us all get through this very difficult time — not just in our city, but in our country.”
Link Copied!

