Mike McCarthy - Managing Editor, CNN Worldwide
Updated
          10:27 AM EDT, Tue June 3, 2025
Mike McCarthy
Managing Editor, CNN Worldwide
Mike McCarthy is Managing Editor of CNN Worldwide. In this role he is responsible for international and domestic news operations across platforms in addition to overseeing CNN International, the network’s global news channel distributed in more than 200 countries and territories.
CNN Digital Expansion 2022 Mike McCarthy
Jai Lennard
About
Mike McCarthy is Managing Editor of CNN Worldwide. In this role he is responsible for international and domestic news operations across platforms in addition to overseeing CNN International, the network’s global news channel distributed in more than 200 countries and territories.
He has overseen the network’s coverage of the biggest global stories in recent years including the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine, the Israel-Hamas War, the Covid-19 pandemic and the climate crisis.
Under his leadership CNN has recently won multiple prestigious journalism awards for its international reporting including a 2024 Overseas Press Club for the network’s coverage of the Israel-Hamas war; a 2023 RTS Television Journalism Award, Alfred I. duPont-Columbia Award, Emmy Award and Overseas Press Club for the network’s coverage of the Russian invasion of Ukraine; a 2023 Edward R. Murrow Award for the network’s investigation of the attack at Kabul airport’s Abbey Gate; a 2022 George Polk Award for The Fall of Afghanistan; a 2021 Edward R. Murrow Award and two Emmy Awards for the network’s investigation into the poisoning of Russian opposition leader Alexey Navalny; a 2020 Royal Television Society (RTS) Award in the Breaking News category for the network’s coverage of the storming of Hong Kong’s Legislative Council by protesters; and a 2020 Alfred I. duPont-Columbia Award for CNN’s coverage of the murder of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi.
McCarthy previously served as the executive vice president and general manager of CNN International.
Since joining CNN in 1999, McCarthy has held a number of key positions across the network’s business, feature and news programming units in London and Atlanta.
He started his career in journalism at the National News Press Agency in London.
Subscribe

