1463600 CNN Expansion NY Oct 2023
CNN
About
As Executive Vice President of CNN International Commercial (CNNIC), Phil Nelson is responsible for CNN’s international business operations and its work with commercial partners.
This remit includes all international Advertising Sales, Content Sales & Licensing and Commercial Distribution revenue, as well as related client solutions functions including the award-winning Create brand studio and world-class digital and data operations. In this role, Nelson also works with partners across the Warner Bros. Discovery business on areas such as CNN’s distribution strategy, including with FAST channels and streaming, and collaboration on US and international digital operations and ad sales to provide more opportunities for brand partners to access news and other genres across the portfolio. Nelson is also part of CNN Worldwide’s leadership team, reporting to Chairman and CEO Mark Thompson.
Previously CNNIC’s Chief Operating Officer from 2019 to 2023, Nelson led operational and international growth initiatives while managing advertising sales support functions. In that time he put in place the framework for CNNIC’s Audience First ad sales strategy, took CNN content onto new platforms, and grew the portfolio of CNN’s international affiliate business with broadcasters and publishers around the world as well as its commercial distribution footprint with hotels and airlines.
Major initiatives in Nelson’s time at CNNIC include the launch of CNN Academy, the introduction of CNN International and CNN Headlines channels onto FAST and Connected TV platforms, expanding CNN’s Middle East presence into Media City Qatar, launching a CNN Events business under the Global Perspectives franchise, and the management of the CNN branded channel portfolio including the addition of CNN Brasil and CNN Portugal.
Prior to joining CNN, Nelson was Managing Director, Turner North Asia and South East Asia Pacific, overseeing all aspects of Turner’s business in these regions. He had previously held other business development and strategic planning roles at Turner since joining in 2010 and has significant digital experience from his time at AOL, where he was Managing Director for AOL Asia. In addition, Nelson holds an MBA from Harvard University and, prior to entering the corporate sector, was a commander in the US Navy.
Subscribe

