Should the US be worried? India’s Modi set for rare China trip after Trump’s tariff sting
Hemant Makhija, who heads the fabrics department at Orient Craft, estimates some 20 million workers at cotton mills across India could be out of a job.
“Mills across the national capital region are already operating at 50% capacity despite this being peak season,” he said.
Ajay Srivastava, a former trade official who runs New Delhi’s Global Trade Research Initiative, predicts the levies will hit export hubs hard, with US orders worth $5.4 billion likely to plummet by 60% to 90%.
For Dhingra, the human cost is the most alarming part.
“It’s very painful (for the workers) to sustain their families,” he said. “This is worse than Covid.”
A need to diversify
The western city of Surat is the epicenter of the global diamond industry, a massive processing hub, where skilled artisans handle about 90% of the world’s rough diamonds, polishing them to make them ready for the global market.
The sector, which employs about 5 million people nationwide, contributes about 7% of the country’s GDP, according to the India Brand Equity Foundation (IBEF).
“The US remains highly dependent on Indian diamonds,” said Jayantibhai Savaliya, regional chairman of the Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council in India. “Any slowdown will have a 100% impact, potentially leading to job losses and salary cuts.”
Employees cut and polish diamonds at Shree Ramkrishna Exports in Surat, India, on April 14, 2025.
Ajit Solanki/AP
While recent shipments provide a temporary buffer, he expects exports to decline significantly over the next eight months, calling the situation a “wake-up call” for the industry to diversify its markets.
Under his turbocharged “America First” foreign policy, Trump has prioritized his own national interests, economic self-sufficiency, and sovereignty – much like Modi, his nationalist counterpart in New Delhi.
The position seeks to reshore manufacturing to the US. But in doing so, it could sacrifice Washington’s long-standing courtship of New Delhi as a vital counterweight to China’s growing influence in the Indo-Pacific region.
The primary source of friction is the US trade deficit with India, which has widened significantly over the last decade, even as bilateral trade has roughly doubled.
The US was India’s largest trade partner as of 2024, yet India ranked tenth in the list of US trading partners for the same year. The bilateral trade between the US and the world’s most populous nation was $129.2 billion in 2024, a record for the partnership.
The high levies could effectively erase India from the US in some key markets like garments, Srivastava, from the Global Trade Research Initiative, said.
It “makes Indian garments uncompetitive against Vietnam’s 20% and China’s 42%,” he added, “leaving little chance to retain US buyers.”
Still, he noted while tariffs will hurt export-heavy sectors like apparel, textiles, jewelry and seafood, these form about 20% of India’s GDP – with US exports counting for a fifth of that.
“Strong domestic demand, 6–7% growth, and ongoing reforms… will cushion the impact, preventing a systemic crisis,” Srivastava said, adding: “India may face short-term pain, but its vast domestic market will cushion the blow, enabling a quick rebound.”
﻿The anxiety has nevertheless made Dhingra from Orient Craft begin to think of alternatives.
“Russia is an unexplored market. I would say parts of Europe, we could grab business there? We could also go to South America, which we have not done,” he said. “But my worry is that it (the tariffs) will leave a very deep scar in the Indo-American relationship.”
Vijay Bedi/CNN
Modi not backing down
While many nations have rushed to strike trade deals with Trump to lower tariffs, Modi has been less willing to cave.
New Delhi called the tariffs “unfair” and “unjustified,” pointing out the hypocrisy of Trump’s move, noting that the US and Europe still buy Russian fertilizers and chemicals.
Earlier this month Modi said India “will never compromise on the interests of farmers, fishermen and dairy farmers.”
“I know personally, I will have to pay a heavy price for it, but I am ready for it,” he added.
India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Donald Trump
Getty Images
To mitigate the impact, the government has announced some countermeasures, including suspending import duties on raw materials and accelerating trade talks to diversify export markets.
But for regular factory workers, this means little.
“If my job goes away, I have no other work. I don’t know how to do anything else,” Pandey said.
“If they can come to a compromise, that would be better. If not, what can we do?”
Ayushi Shah contributed reporting.

