These scientists are trying to ‘grow’ buildings
Building with blades
While Nestle is Krieger’s most ambitious upcycling project to date, it’s not his first time working with turbine waste.
In 2008, one of his first projects as a then-intern at Superuse, involved transforming five decommissioned turbine blades into a children’s playground .
Superuse's first blade waste repurposing project, the Wikado playground in Rotterdam, is still in use today.
Blade–Made
“The main challenge, in most cases, is that it has never been done before,” he explained. “So it’s innovation at its core, where you try to do something that nobody knows if it’s possible and what it takes to make it possible.”
Superuse, which dedicates its practice to sustainable and circular design, went on to pioneer more turbine-upcycling projects over the next 15 years. The firm launched Blade-Made in 2021 as an initiative to take its design concepts to market. Two years later, Krieger turned it into a separate company with Rotterdam-based design firm New Citizen Design .
Krieger describes Blade-Made as a “mediator” between the wind industry and the field of design. And Nestle, which debuted at the 2024 edition of Dutch Design Week , epitomizes this collaborative cross-sector approach. Commissioned by Swedish power company Vattenfall, the project involved the work of several companies , including structural support by IMd Consulting Engineers, interior design by Woodwave and Reliving, technical installations by Feenstra and design by Superuse.
Blade-Made has also transformed decommissioned turbine blades into a range of other structures, from benches to bus stops to street sculptures.
The size and weight of blades and nacelles make them difficult to transport and work with, “so we need simple ways to adapt and change it into something usable,” said Krieger.
A Blade-Made bench in Bleekerseiland in Meppel, in the Netherlands.
Blade–Made
A gathering storm
Wind turbines are increasingly vital to renewable energy infrastructure, with global wind power operating capacity reaching around 1,000 gigawatts in 2025 (for context, 1 gigawatt is enough to power 100 million LED lightbulbs ). Last year, they accounted for 8% of global electricity production, a share that’s expected to grow to 14% by 2030 , according to the International Energy Agency.
But as more wind power is installed, a new challenge is emerging: What to do with turbines after their 20- or 25-year operational lifespan? While around 90% of each turbine’s mass, excluding its foundations, can be recycled, blades and nacelles typically cannot, due to their complex structures and high fiberglass content .

