World • 3 min read
Yemen drone attack injures more than 20 in Israeli city of Eilat, including two in serious condition
By
Sep 24, 2025, 7:39 PM ET
PUBLISHED
Sep 24, 2025, 1:46 PM ET
Footage shows emergency response in Eilat, Israel on September 24.
MDA
Follow
Jerusalem —
At least 22 people were injured, including two seriously, after a drone fired from Yemen hit the city of Eilat in southern Israel on the Red Sea coast on Wednesday, Israeli officials said.
Video and images from emergency responders and the Israeli military appear to show the drone landing near stores and restaurants. The drone was fired during the final hours of the holiday of Rosh Hashanah, which marks the Jewish new year.
The Iran-backed Houthis have repeatedly launched drones and ballistic missiles at Eilat and other areas in southern Israel, but these launches are frequently intercepted. It’s unclear how Wednesday’s drone penetrated Israel’s air defenses.
“Interception attempts were made, and search and rescue teams are operating in the area where the report was received regarding the impact,” the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said in a statement.
Many of those who were injured in the attack suffered shrapnel from the explosion, according to Magen David Adom (MDA), Israel’s emergency response service. A 60-year-old man who was seriously injured was struck by shrapnel in his limbs, while a seriously injured 26-year-old man suffered shrapnel wounds to his chest, MDA said. One other person suffered moderate injuries, MDA said.
The IDF said in a separate statement that its troops “are assisting in evacuating civilians from the area and providing initial medical care.”
“An IDF helicopter was dispatched and is currently assisting in evacuating injured individuals from the scene,” it added.
The Houthi militant group in Yemen later claimed responsibility for the attack, calling it a “qualitative military operation.”
Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz vowed to revenge against Houthis following the attack on the city. “The Houthi terrorists refuse to learn from Iran, Lebanon, and Gaza – and they will learn the hard way,” Katz said in a statement.
“Whoever harms Israel will be harmed sevenfold,” Katz added.

