How to contact the Guardian securely
Mon 2 Jun 2025 06.48 EDT
Last modified on Sun 20 Jul 2025 23.19 EDT
Share
How to contact the Guardian securely
Some of the most important stories published by the Guardian have come
			from confidential tips. If you have something sensitive to
			share with us, here’s how to get in touch.
Confidential tips
Journalists work closely with readers like you to investigate stories
					in the public interest. While no communication system is foolproof we
					go to great lengths to protect your identity and information. If
					you’re ready to share information with a journalist you’re in the
					right place, and we will treat you as a confidential journalistic
					source.
We rely on people sharing tips in the public interest – and we’re
					grateful that you’re thinking about getting in touch.
Composing your message
We’re unlikely to pursue a lead unless we think it may lead to a news
					story, and we can't act on information that is vague or speculative.
					Our job is to hold power to account, to reveal institutional or
					systemic failings and to report on topics that are genuinely
					newsworthy. Please be clear, detailed and specific about your tip, why
					you think it matters, and what evidence you have.
Facts: Specifics are critical, such as names,
		locations and dates.
I work at government department ‘Department name’ in 
		the procurement section.
Clearly state the nature of your tip: Be concise 
		and focus on what you know, rather than what you think or suspect.
I have discovered evidence of a senior official's 
		involvement in corruption and bribery. ‘Name’, the head of our 
		section, has received $150,000 in under-the-radar payments.
Evidence: Tell us how you know what you know,
		and how we might verify it.
I have photographic evidence of transactions from the past two years and access to further 
		documents that show these were a quid pro quo for awarding 
		contracts to multinational company ‘Company name’.
Choose your contact method
There are many ways to contact the Guardian securely. Review the
				following options to see which one is best for you.
SecureMessaging
Share your story with a journalist. Securely & easily. Inside our news app.
Pros:
Free and easy to download.
End-to-end encrypted.
Sending messages is indistinguishable from normal use of the Guardian app.
Connects you, anonymously if you choose, directly to our journalists.
Designed to be easy for everyone to use, without expert tech knowledge.
Consider other platforms:
If you live or work in a place where the Guardian app is not safe to
				have on your device, scroll down for alternative ways to contact us.
Download the Guardian app
Go to 'Secure Messaging' in the menu
2 of 3
3 of 3
SecureDrop
Our SecureDrop system is a great way to contact us and to send documents. However, it does require more technical preparation.
Pros:
SecureDrop does not record where things come from.
All material is encrypted automatically.
We read your submissions on secure computers.
Cons:
You will need to download Tor software to access our SecureDrop system.
If you are being watched, the very act of using Tor may arouse suspicion.
SecureDrop allows you to safely send us messages and documents, and to follow
	up with us later if you wish. All we get is what you send us plus a codename
	that allows us to reply to you. SecureDrop records nothing else about you. To
	prevent interception at our end, we decrypt any material that you send us on 
	a system that is completely offline.
Get started:
On a computer that you are confident is not being monitored, install Tor Browser . Then go to theguardian.com/securedrop and follow the instructions there.
After that:
When you first visit our SecureDrop site itself, you will be given a 
	passphrase before you can send anything. This phrase allows you to log back in 
	to view replies from us and to continue correspondence, if you so wish. 
	We do not always reply to messages and even when we do, responses can take several days.
SecureDrop is quite a slow way to communicate, so after you have begun
	corresponding with a reporter they may suggest a more direct way to interact.
	You don’t have to agree to this, of course, but it can make things smoother
	under some circumstances.
SecureDrop is an open source project managed by the Freedom of the Press Foundation .
Show more
Instant messenger apps
End to end encrypted messaging apps such as Signal and WhatsApp provide good protection for the content of your messages, and are very easy to use.
Signal is trusted by journalists, human rights activists and security experts
	worldwide, and is our recommended instant messaging app. WhatsApp, while not 
	quite as secure, also encrypts the content of communications and benefits from 
	being so ubiquitous that using it is unlikely (in itself) to raise suspicion 
	in most parts of the world. Other secure messenger apps tend to be less widely 
	used for communication between sources and our journalists.
Pros:
They’re very easy to use.
They allow for speedy back-and-forth communication.
Everything is encrypted in transit and on the service providers’ servers, so
		not even they can read the content of your messages.
Cons:
On WhatsApp, information about the participants in a conversation is less
		secure than the content itself.
There are ways for very sophisticated adversaries, such as government spy 
		agencies, to ascertain that someone is communicating with a journalist 
		using messaging apps – even if they can’t read the message content.
Instant messenger communication requires advance knowledge of the
		participants’ contact details. For WhatsApp it must be a phone number; for
		Signal it can be a username or phone number. Many journalists are reluctant
		to publish their personal contact details widely because such information 
		can be abused.
It’s not uncommon for conversations with journalists to shift to instant messenger
	apps once both sides have established some trust and have discussed the
	benefits and risks. But you or the journalist may decide not to use them.
Get started:
Decide whether you want to do this on your normal phone or if you want to buy
	a less easily traceable phone for this purpose. After installing the app, make
	it as secure as possible: if there are extra authentication options, activate
	them. And activate disappearing messages so your conversations don’t sit
	around forever on your device.
Read more about Signal here and about WhatsApp here .
After that:
If you’re worried about surveillance and you’ve not used the app before,
	consider using it for few innocuous purposes first, such as exchanging 
	messages with friends. That way, when you message us, your use of the app 
	doesn’t look out of the ordinary.
Signal/WhatsApp numbers for our investigations teams:
United Kingdom: +44 7721 857348
United States: +1 646 886 8761
Australia: +61 490 758 250
Please don’t call or send ordinary text messages to those numbers. You won’t
	get a reply.
Check our journalists’ profile pages for other contact details.
	Google their name and “the Guardian” and you should find them. If you can’t
	find the right contact details for the journalist, you could message one of
	the above numbers and ask for your details to be passed on to the person you
	have in mind.
Please note the recommendations earlier in this guide for what to say about 
	the information you wish to share.
Show more
Email
Use a tailor-made email account to make it less obvious that you are in contact with a journalist.
If the information you wish to share with us isn’t extremely sensitive, 
	email is probably the easiest way to get in touch. Even so, you may 
	consider it worthwhile to put a bit of distance between your messages 
	to a journalist and the rest of your life. Plus, because journalists 
	receive so many emails, you should take extra care to make sure your 
	message doesn’t get lost in the noise.
Pros:
Everyone knows how to use email, and many Guardian journalists publish
		their email addresses.
You can send long messages and attachments. This is difficult using phone
		apps.
It's possible (but not straightforward) to add encryption to email messages.
Cons:
Normal emails are not at all secure. Your correspondence can be monitored. 
		Even a purpose-built email account can reveal information about you.
Adding encryption to emails is difficult and does not hide some information
		(who is talking to whom, the subject lines, etc).
Email is an inherently insecure medium but you can do some things to make your 
	correspondence less likely to be intercepted.
Get started:
Don’t use your regular work or personal email address. Create a new email account 
	solely for corresponding with the Guardian. Do this on a computer that can't easily
	be linked back to you.
When you sign up for a new email account, make sure the sign-up information 
	you provide doesn’t tie the account back to you. Never use the same password 
	for different accounts.
After that:
Because it's so easy to send emails, journalists often receive a lot of spurious
	and irrelevant messages. So anything that doesn't get their attention quickly may 
	be overlooked. Read the advice further up in this guide about what makes a 
	good story tip.
Information carried with an email message can reveal your IP address. 
	If you don’t want the location you send from to be traceable, connect to your 
	email service over the Tor network. or send from somewhere that doesn’t easily identify you.
Remember to log out after sending the message. You may also wish to delete the 
	history of the correspondence from your browser or email software. Keep your computer secure.
Some Guardian journalists publish PGP keys, allowing you to encrypt the content
	of email messages (but not the subject line or the fact that you are communicating with them).
	See theguardian.com/pgp.
Show more
Telephone
Although telephone communication is far from secure, it can be a practical way to get a conversation started.
Pros:
Useful to initiate communication with a journalist to exchange contact
		information for more secure channels.
Cons:
Telephone communication can be intercepted and could reveal your identity
		and/or location.
It’s not always easy to verify that the person you’re speaking to is who
		they say they are.
Get started:
Before you get in touch, find the name of the journalist you want to speak to,
	and decide in advance exactly how much you want to tell them about who you are
	and how they can get back to you. The journalist you want may not be available
	when you call, so you may have to leave a message. Be prepared for that.
If you plan to share documents with us later, look at some of the other
	options in this guide before calling so you can tell the journalist how you’d
	prefer to do that.
Consider whether or not it is safe to call us from your work or home phone, or
	from any mobile phone that is associated with you. If you buy a pay-as-you-go
	sim card to call us from a new number, think carefully about where and when
	you buy it, and how you pay for it. And remember that mobile phone calls
	disclose the handset ID as well as the sim card.
After that:
Call us on one of these numbers:
London office: +44 (0)20 3353 2000
Sydney office: +61 (0)2 8076 8500
New York office: +1 212 231 7762
Washington office: +1 202 517 89042
San Francisco office: +1 415 919 5874
Find the number you need
Postal mail
Post still has its uses, especially if you want to send us hard copies.
Pros:
If appropriate measures are taken, conventional mail can be a reasonably
		good way to hide who you are.
If you don’t want to meet a journalist in person, it’s the only reliable way
		to hand over physical objects.
Cons:
Post can get hijacked or at least scanned in transit.
Post can get lost.
If you’re not actually being followed it’s fairly unlikely that an envelope or
	small package will get intercepted.
Get started:
Stuff can go missing in the post, so consider how bad it would be to lose the
	material you’re planning to send us. Can you make copies?
Think about whether or not you need to preserve your anonymity. Could the
	posting location give you up? How about the materials and packaging? If you’re
	very worried about the package being traced back to you, post it somewhere
	busy and make sure there is nothing memorable about your or the package’s
	appearance.
Mail is scanned for dangerous compounds and objects. Don’t include anything
	that could cause problems with delivery. International mail needs a customs
	declaration, and registered mail requires you to provide sender details.
After that:
Guardian UK postal address: The Guardian Kings Place 90 York Way London N1 9GU United Kingdom
Guardian US postal address: The Guardian 315 West 36th St New York NY 10018 USA
Guardian Australia postal address: The Guardian Level 2 19 Foster St Surry Hills NSW 2010 Australia
Find the address you need
Still can’t decide?
Guardian software developers and journalists built the Secure Messaging
				tool in our app specifically to help people speak to our reporters as
				securely as possible. We recommend you use it if you live and work in a
				place where it is safe to use the Guardian news app.
Not what you were looking for?
Are you looking for other ways to contact us?
This page is about ways to contact Guardian journalists about issues that
			you think we should report on. It’s not for customer service enquiries,
			complaints, article pitches, etc. Try instead our standard contact us page. If you’re looking for help with your account, visit our Help Centre .
Explore more on these topics

