Published
          6:18 AM EDT, Wed March 19, 2025
Link Copied!
A picture released by North Korea's state news agency, KCNA, shows Hwasong, a new high-rise neighborhood being constructed in Pyongyang.
KCNA
CNN —
As North Korea slowly emerges from five years of self-imposed pandemic isolation, a glittering new high-rise neighborhood in the capital Pyongyang is taking center stage.
Photos of the 10,000-apartment development, released by state news agency KCNA after the country’s leader Kim Jong Un inspected the site Saturday, show residential skyscrapers spilling out from a wide boulevard in the new district, Hwasong.
The project is part of a major construction drive in the capital, and across much of the internationally isolated, authoritarian nation, intended to improve living standards.
The homes are part of an ambitious five-year plan, announced in 2021, to build 50,000 additional apartments in Pyongyang, where residents’ quality of life is considerably higher than elsewhere in the impoverished country.
But despite the gleaming images of Pyongyang’s new skyline, high-rise living in North Korea is not necessarily a symbol of luxury. Frequent power outages mean that elevators in residential buildings often do not function, making daily life difficult for those living in upper floors. As a result, younger residents are typically assigned higher apartments, while older residents are moved to lower floors to minimize the physical strain of climbing stairs, as witnessed by CNN during multiple visits to the country.
Housing shortages remain a significant challenge for North Korea, which is also grappling with a faltering economy, surging commodity prices, and ongoing food insecurity. A 2021 study by researchers from South Korea’s Institute of Civil Engineering and Building Technology suggested that the country only has enough homes to accommodate 70% to 80% of its households. Outside of the showpiece capital, many homes are dilapidated and lack consistent access to electricity, clean water and sewage services.
A picture released by North Korea's state news agency KCNA shows the country's leader Kim Jong Un visiting Hwasong on Saturday.
KCNA
The new neighborhood features numerous tall towers — two of which are connected by a soaring skybridge — as well as “educational, commercial and service facilities,” according to state media. KCNA claimed that Kim was closely involved in the design and “energetically led the work of drawing up the construction plan.”
Kim’s site visit comes ahead of the official opening ceremony on April 15, one of the country’s most important public holidays, celebrating the birthday of his grandfather, North Korea’s late founder, Kim Il Sung.
Related gallery CNN goes inside an upscale North Korean apartment
The opening will complete the third stage of construction at Hwasong, an area described by state media as a “beautiful and modern urban quarter” that signifies “a new era of prosperity” for Pyongyang.
Pyongyang has been largely closed off to visitors since North Korea shut its borders in response to the Covid-19 pandemic more than five years ago. A small number of Russian tourists visited the city in 2024, though the capital was off-limits to the international tour group that entered the country last month before trips were again suspended. The latter group was only permitted to visit Rason, a special economic zone near the country’s border with China and Russia.
Hwasong is the latest in a series of recent urban developments in Pyongyang, which is known for its pastel-colored, Soviet-style architecture . Other large residential projects have been built around Mirae Scientists Street and Songhwa Street, where the country’s second tallest building — the Songhwa Street Main Tower — was completed in 2022.

