See your latest updates
Africa Hall, home of the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (ECA), has stood as a symbol of African Unity in the Ethiopian capital of Addis Ababa for more than 60 years. A hugely significant building, it recently re-opened after an extensive renovation. Scroll through the gallery to see more.
Rory Gardiner
Africa Hall was presented to the ECA as a gift from Ethiopian Emperor Haile Selassie (center). Two years later in 1963, Selassie welcomed leaders of Africa’s independent states to the inaugural meeting of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), which later became the African Union.
ECA
The building was originally assembled in just 18 months to open in February 1961. Its design was the brainchild of Arturo Mezzedimi, an Italian architect who had worked on various projects across East Africa.
ECA
The OAU was formed for African states to discuss various issues on the continent, from economic initiatives to the eradication of colonialism. “Only a few years ago, meetings to consider African problems were held outside Africa, and the fate of its peoples were decided by non-Africans,” Selassie said in his inaugural address. “Today … the peoples of Africa can, at long last, deliberate on their own problems and future.”
ECA
The building hosted OAU meetings until 2002 when the organization was replaced by the African Union (AU), which moved its headquarters across Addis Ababa to the African Union Conference Center and Office Complex. The ECA remained, and on its 50th anniversary in 2008, voted for a mass renovation Africa Hall.
Rory Gardiner
The restoration project – approved by the UN General Assembly in 2014 and overseen by the ECA — was led by Australian design firm Architectus Conrad Gargett. The central Plenary Hall (pictured) was updated in both layout and technology, with a new triple horseshoe setup and screens built into desks allowing it to cope with the demands of modern conferences.
Rory Gardiner
More than 500 bespoke pieces of furniture were built for the restoration, each one designed according to original drawings and restored to its former position.
Rory Gardiner
The numerous artworks and mosaics on display in the building were also intricately retouched, including a 40-meter-long fabric wall piece by Italian artist Nenne Sanguineti Poggi, based on the flora of Africa.
Rory Gardiner
Also restored was Africa’s Hall most iconic artwork, “The Total Liberation of Africa,” a 150-meter stained-glass window designed by renowned Ethiopian artist Afewerk Tekle for the original building.
Rory Gardiner
The window was dissembled, cleaned, and remade panel by panel in a meticulous process led by the grandson of the man who created the original stained glass from Tekle’s design.
Rory Gardiner
Re-inaugurated in October 2024, Africa Hall maintains the same essence after its restoration, said project architect Simon Boundy. “When you show up to the space today, it still has the same look and feel as the original design,” he told CNN, “But it’s got that technology behind the scenes.”
Rory Gardiner
Africa Hall: A restored symbol of African unity
Prev
Next
CNN —
Only 26 African countries had achieved independence when, in February 1961, Ethiopian Emperor Haile Selassie ascended a sloping staircase to inaugurate Africa Hall in Addis Ababa, which he gifted as the new headquarters for the UN Economic Commission for Africa (ECA).
A dominating presence in the heart of the Ethiopian capital, adorned with a sweeping 150-square-meter (1,614-square-foot) stained-glass window, the structure, designed by Italian architect Arturo Mezzedimi, had taken just 18 months to build. Fittingly then, it didn’t take long before the building became the site of a landmark event in the story of modern Africa.
Just over two years later, Selassie once again made the climb to welcome the founding members of the newly formed Organization of African Unity (OAU) to their home — a meeting place intended to foster cooperation, drive economic progress and eradicate colonialism across the continent.
Addressing representatives of the then-32 independent African states, Selassie declared that the continent was “at midcourse, in transition from the Africa of yesterday to the Africa of tomorrow.”
“We must act to shape and mold the future and leave our imprint on events as they slip past into history,” he continued.
As well as Africa Hall, Arturo Mezzedimi designed several buildings across the city.
MEZZ Archive
More than 60 years later, Selassie’s message has come full-circle: Africa Hall has been shaped and molded anew.
Last October marked the completion of a decade-long renovation across the entirety of the 12,800 square-meter site, commissioned by the ECA in 2013 with a $57 million budget to revitalize the landmark as a world-class conference and cultural venue.
Australian design practice Architectus Conrad Gargett was entrusted with leading the re-design, giving project architect Simon Boundy a mission with dual themes — modernization and conservation.
“The two go hand-in-hand with projects like this,” Boundy told CNN, “Where you’ve got an aging asset, but if it doesn’t get used, it falls into disrepair.”
“It’s about bringing the building back to life, making it accessible to the public and celebrating the story of the building for future generations.”
The home of the ECA.
Rory Gardiner
Building balance
The conundrum for Boundy and his team was that those two aims threatened to undermine the historical significance of Africa Hall. In essence, how do you modernize a historical landmark without losing some of its soul?
As a heritage architect — regularly tasked with making sensitive changes to buildings of historical or cultural importance — Boundy is well-versed in answering that question.
The first step was understanding Africa Hall’s importance and history, which was aided by hiring local architects and engineers to work on the renovation. Among them was Mewded Wolde, who, a day before her university graduation in 2014, found herself on the roof of Africa Hall taking measurements.
Born and raised in Addis Ababa, Wolde says the building — which hosted OAU meetings until the organization was replaced by the African Union (AU) in 2002, which eventually moved into new headquarters in Addis Ababa — is a source of pride for herself and many others given its role in helping countries across the continent achieve independence from colonial rule.
“This building, still for the African Union, is a symbol,” Wolde told CNN.
“It’s an artwork in itself that symbolizes the struggle that we have gone through in the past 60, 70 years to get to African unity.”
In 1969, Africa Hall hosted the ninth session of the ECA.
MEZZ Archive
Local knowledge helped Boundy navigate the “balancing act” of modernizing Africa Hall without devaluing its legacy. Roughly 13 million new tiles were fabricated and reinstalled to exactly match the original material, staying true to the brown, orange and off-white color palette of Mezzedimi’s modernist design.
Related article This Nigerian designer is making waves with her ‘four-dimensional’ fashion
The old layout of the Plenary Hall was deemed to lack seating space, so after consulting the building’s original architectural drawings, the team designed new furniture in the same style and added an extra ring of seating.
Hidden in each desk is a digital screen, a subtle addition that — along with the arrival of a 13-meter-wide (42-foot-wide) LED display — leaves Africa Hall well suited to meet the technological requirements of modern conference hosting, while preserving the original architecture.
“We don’t want to leave our mark on the building,” Boundy said. “We want to just bring the original design to life again and hopefully everything that we do is behind the scenes, concealed in the ceilings, and it’s not the feature.”
Some aspects, however, demanded more radical change, especially those concerning accessibility and safety. The building — “quite dilapidated” — was stripped back to its structural core and strengthened with carbon fiber and steel before being built up again, Boundy explained, to protect the concrete from the damage caused by rusting steel and the threat of seismic activity.
Plenary Hall was reimagined to bring it up to speed with modern conferencing demands.
Rory Gardiner
Total Liberation
Protective measures also included a strengthened frame for the crown jewel of Africa Hall: the two-story stained-glass window that has adorned the foyer since 1961.
Titled “The Total Liberation of Africa,” it was Ethiopian artist Afewerk Tekle’s signature piece and is split into three panels; Africa Then, Africa Then and Now, and Africa Now and in the Future.
Featuring a knight in shining armor emblazoned with the UN logo, a dragon and the grim reaper, the work tells a story of liberation, of “slaying the demons” of colonization, Boundy explained.
Tekle’s work is Africa Hall’s definitive symbol, and can be seen splashed across shirts, ties and more in the city.
“The symbolism of the artwork is something that’s really hard to overstate, how important that is,” Boundy said.
“It really tells the story of what Africa Hall is trying to represent, which is the very best of what Africa can do, quite literally shedding the recent history, and looking very much forward … You can sit and spend hours staring at it.”
Tekle's work is renowned across Addis Ababa and beyond.
Rory Gardiner
With various original pieces either loose or missing, the entire artwork was meticulously disassembled, cleaned and restored panel-by-panel by Emmanuel Thomas, the grandson of the person who originally made the stained glass from Tekle’s design.
Its refreshed look was unveiled alongside a new permanent exhibition to highlight the key events at Africa Hall that have helped to shape Pan-African history. For Wolde, both the artwork and the renovation itself are reflective of Selassie’s 1963 address, where he spoke of molding the Africa of tomorrow.
“Even now, even with all the upgrades that have happened in Africa Hall, this quote is actually true,” Wolde said.
“This is the space that we’re going to use to shape the future. Even then it was where they were having meetings … to shape the future of Africa, and even now, it symbolizes that. I really love this.”
Ad Feedback

