Watch CNN coverage of shooting at ICE facility
Ad Feedback
What we covered here
• The victims: One detainee is dead and two more are in critical condition following a shooting at a US Immigration and Customs Enforcement field office in Dallas, according to the Department of Homeland Security. One of the injured detainees is a Mexican national , according to the country’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
• “Targeted violence”: The FBI is investigating it “as an act of targeted violence.” The shooter was identified by sources as Joshua Jahn, who died from a self-inflicted gunshot.
• Federal response: President Donald Trump blamed “ radical left Democrats ” for the violence following the shooting. Elsewhere, FBI Director Kash Patel posted an image of bullet casings found near the suspected shooter containing “messages that are anti-ICE in nature.”
All
Catch Up
54 Posts
Our live coverage of the shooting at an ICE facility in Dallas has ended. Get the latest here.
Link Copied!
Kristi Noem says evidence suggests shooting suspect was "very much against" ICE officers
From CNN's Kaanita Iyer
Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem told CNN that evidence gathered following the shooting at an US Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility in Dallas indicates the alleged shooter was “against” ICE agents.
“The indication and the evidence that has been revealed to the public so far indicates that it is someone who is very much against our ICE officers and the work that they were doing,” Noem told CNN.
Noem also shared that the alleged shooter was not trying to target a specific area of the facility.
“We know that there was bullet holes all over the building. It wasn’t just targeted at one specific area or through a window,” Noem said, adding that the alleged shooter “was very much focused on hitting anyone that he could inside and making sure that they were victims of this attack.”
The secretary’s comments come as President Donald Trump blamed “radical left Democrats” for the shooting, which left one detainee dead and two injured. Vice President JD Vance has echoed Trump’s comments.
When asked if Trump and Vance’s assessments are based on any information provided by the Department of Homeland Security, Noem said she “can’t speak to what the president and vice president were briefed on.”
Link Copied!
Where the investigation stands tonight into deadly ICE facility shooting
From CNN staff
Officials are working on investigating a deadly shooting at an ICE facility in Dallas today that left one detainee dead.
It is being investigated as “an act of targeted violence,” Special Agent in Charge Joe Rothrock said earlier, as other prominent figures — including President Donald Trump — are blaming rhetoric from the left.
Here’s where things stand:
What we know: One detainee was killed and two others were hospitalized, the Department of Homeland Security said. DHS Secretary Kristi Noem said the suspect died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Described as a “sniper,” the gunman fired “indiscriminately” at the facility from a nearby rooftop, DHS said. No law enforcement personnel were injured, according to Rothrock.
Victims: The three detainees who were shot were in the country illegally , had been arrested and were to be transferred to a longer-term facility, ICE Deputy Director Madison Sheahan told Fox News. One of the detainees wounded was a Mexican national , according to a statement from Mexico’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Suspect: The shooter is believed to be Joshua Jahn , 29, according to three sources familiar with the case. Acting ICE Director Todd Lyons said in an interview with Fox News that Jahn was “known to law enforcement.” Investigators are looking into various aspects of his life, Lyons said.
Investigation: Aerial video captured by CNN affiliate KTVT shows officers searching a building where authorities say a gunman fired from. Other video recorded by CNN shows authorities searching a Toyota at an office building near the ICE facility. Bullet casings with “anti-ICE messages” were found on scene, according to DHS.
Trump and officials react: Trump claimed the violence stems from “ radical left Democrats constantly demonizing law enforcement.” Vice President JD Vance also called the shooting an act of politically motivated violence and blamed what he described as inflammatory rhetoric from Democratic leaders and the media. Noem said, “These horrendous killings must serve as a wake-up call to the far-left that their rhetoric about ICE has consequences.”
Key Texas figures: In an interview with KTVT , Texas Gov. Greg Abbott called the shooting “an attack against our country itself.” Earlier, Abbott said agencies will continue to “arrest, detain, and deport any individuals in this country illegally — without interruption.” Dallas Mayor Eric L. Johnson called for healing and unity after the shooting. Democratic state Rep. Rafael Anchía , who represents Dallas, called for action to address gun violence.
CNN’s Elise Hammond, Maureen Chowdhury, Chris Boyette, Priscilla Alvarez, Leigh Waldman, Cindy Von Quednow, Alejandra Jaramillo, Graham Hurley, Jason Morris, Ed Lavandera, Ashley Killough, Dave Alsup and Amanda Jackson contributed reporting to this post.
Link Copied!
Gov. Abbott calls shooting at ICE facility in Dallas "an attack against our country"
From CNN's Cindy Von Quednow
Texas Gov. Greg Abbott said the shooting at an US Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility in Dallas was an attack against the country.
“Any loss of life is bad, but this is an assault now. Not just on ICE agents. This is an assault on the federal government simply trying to enforce the law,” the governor said in an interview with CNN affiliate KTVT following a previously scheduled event this afternoon. “This is unacceptable. Unacceptable to see these multiple high number of attacks on ICE on law enforcement. It’s an attack against our country itself.”
In a previous statement , Abbott said the shooting would not deter officials from carrying out immigration enforcement.
“We will not let this cowardly attack impede our efforts to secure the border, enforce immigration law, and ensure law and order,” Abbott said in the statement.
He said agencies like ICE, in coordination with the Texas Department of Public Safety and the National Guard, will continue to “arrest, detain, and deport any individuals in this country illegally — without interruption.”
Link Copied!
Man describes taking cover near fence during shooting
From CNN's Taylor Galgano
The fence where Shane Reynolds took cover Wednesday as gunshots rang out outside the ICE building in Dallas.
The fence where Reynolds took cover.
Shane Reynolds, 29, brought a man from his church to his immigration appointment in Dallas on Wednesday and was waiting for him on a bench outside when he heard gunshots.
He didn’t think much of the first shot he heard, Reynolds said, but started to worry when the shots continued. While a couple of people sprinted back to their cars, Reynolds stayed put because he didn’t know where the shooter was targeting.
“Running out into the open parking lot just seemed like a bad idea,” he said. “I said a prayer. I looked around to try to assess our options, which there weren’t a whole lot.”
He ultimately scooted behind a nearby chain link fence that divided the customer parking lot from the Immigration and Customs Enforcement staff parking lot as the gunshots rang out.
There was “anywhere between six to ten (gunshots),” he said. “Each one that comes by, you’re like, okay, maybe that’s the last one.”
Reynolds said he couldn’t communicate with the other people stranded outside because they didn’t speak English. They weren’t panicking, which helped him stay calm, he said.
After a brief lull, he heard a smaller pop noise, which he believes was the sound of the gunman taking his own life.
Link Copied!
Both parties must stop "divisive" rhetoric, US Congressman says
From CNN's Taylor Romine
The rhetoric associated with today’s shooting is “appalling and sickening,” said  Rep. Marc Veasey of Texas, a Democract representing the area where the ICE facility is located.
“Right now we need for all of our elected officials on the Democratic and Republican side to offer words of comfort instead of trying to do one up-ism to try see whose fault this is,” he said while speaking with CNN’s Erin Burnett.
“Whether we’re Democrats or Republicans, you have to condemn violent rhetoric and divisive rhetoric from the left and the right, and it has to occur in both parties,” he said.
He also said he was disturbed by elected officials for the state not mourning the death and injuries of migrants, and instead focusing on law enforcement officials not being hurt.
“These are people too, the migrants are individuals,” he said.
Link Copied!
Authorities increase patrols around Southern California ICE facility
From CNN’s Cindy Von Quednow
The San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department is increasing patrols in areas around the Immigration and Customs Enforcement processing center in Adelanto, California, in response to “the recent violence aimed at several (ICE) facilities” across the country, authorities said in a news release today.
“These measures are being taken out of an abundance of caution, and there is currently no direct threat to the public or the facility,” the news release said.
The facility is privately owned and operating by the GEO Group, which contracts with ICE, the release explains. While the sheriff’s department does not engage in immigration enforcement and is not assigned to the facility, it is located in a city that contracts with the law enforcement agency, officials explained.
Link Copied!
“Violence is never the answer,” LULAC president says after ICE facility shooting
From CNN’s Norma Galeana and Cindy Von Quednow
The League of United Latin American Citizens, known as LULAC, condemned Wednesday’s shooting at a Dallas ICE facility.
“Violence is never the answer, and our nation must not normalize these horrific acts,” Roman Palomares, LULAC’s president and chairman of the board, said in a news release. “We grieve with the families of the victims and urge Americans to lower the temperature in our public discourse.”
Gabriel Rosales, the organization’s Texas director, called the incident a “tragedy.”
“No family should suffer such pain,” Rosales said.
Link Copied!
Authorities are searching a vehicle near the Dallas ICE office
CNN’s Ed Lavandera, Ashley Killough, Dave Alsup, Amanda Jackson and John Miller
Law enforcement searching vehicle at office building near where Dallas ICE office shooting took place
Law enforcement searching vehicle at office building near where Dallas ICE office shooting took place
00:52
A CNN team recorded video of authorities searching a Toyota at an office building near the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in Dallas where today’s shooting took place.
The team witnessed a heavy law enforcement presence at the building as authorities searched the car with Texas plates.
On the side of the car was a sign displaying a map of the United States with the wording “Radioactive fallout from nuclear detonations have passed over these areas more than 2x since 1951.”
The car was cleared by the local bomb squad and other investigators before they started their search, according to a law enforcement source familiar with the investigation.
The source said investigators are also executing search warrants where they believe the shooter lived in the suburbs outside of Dallas.
It is not immediately clear what connection the vehicle has to the shooting investigation.
Link Copied!
Democratic Texas state lawmaker calls for action to address gun violence after shooting
From CNN's Elise Hammond
Texas Rep. Rafael Anchía speaks at the Texas Capitol on Thursday, August 28.
Aaron E. Martinez/The Austin American-Statesman/Getty Images/File
Democratic state Rep. Rafael Anchía, who represents Dallas, said his community “stands united against targeted gun violence” following this morning’s shooting at an ICE facility.
“This is not about politics — every person who values their neighbor must denounce violence in all forms and commit to meaningful action to address the gun violence epidemic,” he said in a post on X.
Anchía said the FBI is leading the investigation and he would help in those efforts.
President Donald Trump and other Republicans have blamed the left for violence following the shooting. At least one detainee was killed, according to the Department of Homeland Security.
Link Copied!
"Don’t get out, stay inside the car": Gunshots heard in witness video
From CNN's Ed Lavandera and Cindy Von Quednow
Shots ring outside Dallas ICE detention facility
Shots ring outside Dallas ICE detention facility
00:35
Video Credit: Denises Robleto
Denises Robleto was waiting for her mother outside the ICE facility in Dallas when she heard shots early Wednesday.
She was on a video call with her sister at the time and the gunshots can be heard in the video she shared with CNN. It was still dark out.
“That’s very close, that’s very close,” a female passenger can be heard saying in Spanish.
“Don’t get out, stay inside the car,” her sister says on the call, urging the women to take cover.
But Robleto does get out of the car and tries to see what is going on. She said she can hear screaming coming from the facility.
No one in the car was injured during the incident, she told CNN.
Later, once reunited with her mother, she told CNN she missed a doctor’s appointment and a ride for her job working with Uber because her car is now part of the crime scene.
She said she thought of her mother when she heard the gunshots because she thought they were fired inside the facility, where her mother had an appointment.
“I had never seen anything so stunning and so close before,” Robleto told CNN.
Link Copied!
Trump blames the left for violence after ICE facility shooting
From CNN's Alejandra Jaramillo
A Dallas Police Department vehicle sits near the scene of a shooting near a US Immigration and Customs Enforcement  detention facility in Dallas, Wednesday.
Aric Becker/AFP/Getty Images
Hours after today’s shooting at an ICE facility, President Donald Trump weighed in publicly , linking the incident to violence he claimed — without evidence — stems from “radical left Democrats constantly demonizing law enforcement.”
“It has now been revealed the deranged shooter wrote ‘Anti-ICE’ on his shell casings,” Trump wrote on Truth Social this afternoon, referencing information shared earlier in the day by FBI Director Kash Patel.
“This violence is the result of the Radical Left Democrats constantly demonizing Law Enforcement, calling for ICE to be demolished, and comparing ICE Officers to ‘Nazis,’” he added.
“The continuing violence from Radical Left Terrorists, in the aftermath of Charlie Kirk’s assassination, must be stopped,” Trump continued, also previewing an executive order he said he will sign soon. “We have already declared ANTIFA a Terrorist Organization, and I will be signing an Executive Order this week to dismantle these Domestic Terrorism Networks,” Trump added, without specifying which networks.
Vice President JD Vance also claimed earlier today — without providing evidence — the attack was politically motivated, blaming what he described as inflammatory rhetoric from Democratic leaders and the media.
Link Copied!
Mexican government announces one of the wounded ICE detainees is a Mexican national
From CNN's Graham Hurley
One of the detainees wounded in the shooting at the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility in Dallas was a Mexican national, according to a statement from Mexico’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
The Mexican Consulate General in Dallas contacted authorities “who confirmed that one of the seriously injured individuals is a Mexican national and is hospitalized receiving medical care,” the statement reads.
The ministry said the head of its North American Unit expressed concern for the wounded Mexican national and requested clarification of the shooting’s events and asked to allow unrestricted access to the Mexican national, the statement reads.
“The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through its consular network in the United States, reaffirms its commitment to ensuring the protection and defense of the rights of Mexicans abroad,” the statement reads.
Link Copied!
Dallas ICE facility detainees moved to Texas detention center to complete processing, attorney says
From CNN's Priscilla Alvarez
Individuals who were at the Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility in Dallas have been moved to a Texas detention center to complete processing, according to a notification from George Rodriguez, an immigration attorney and ICE liaison for the American Immigration Lawyers Association.
Once detainees arrive at the new center, they’re expected to be able to contact family members, according to the notification.
Those who were scheduled to report to the Dallas facility on Thursday, Friday, Saturday, or Sunday are now being told to come on Monday instead, according to Rodriguez. As a result, the center will be quieter over the next few days.
This post has been updated with additional details from Rodriguez.
Link Copied!
DHS revises death toll to 1
By CNN staff
One ICE detainee was killed in Wednesday’s shooting, and two others were hospitalized in critical condition, the Department of Homeland Security said in an afternoon news release.
Earlier, DHS said two ICE detainees were dead and another was seriously injured. The agency later revised the numbers without providing further explanation.
Link Copied!
Law enforcement searches building tied to Dallas ICE shooting
From CNN's Graham Hurley
Aerial video of the building where the suspected shooter is believed to have shot at the ICE facility from
01:07 • Source: CNN
Aerial video of the building where the suspected shooter is believed to have shot at the ICE facility from
01:07
Aerial video captured by CNN affiliate KTVT shows officers searching a building where authorities say a gunman fired at the nearby ICE facility in Dallas and shot three ICE detainees.
Several law enforcement officers can be seen on the roof of the building while others enter.
The video later pans to shows an aerial view of the ICE facility.
The shooter fired “indiscriminately” at the ICE facility from the other building’s rooftop Wednesday morning, “including at a van in the sallyport where the victims were shot,” the Department of Homeland Security has said . Of the three ICE detainees shot, one was killed and two others were hospitalized, authorities have said.
The Department of Homeland Security initially said two ICE detainees were dead and another was seriously injured, but later revised the death toll to one without providing further explanation.
This post has been updated with additional information.
Link Copied!
Vice President Vance blames left-wing rhetoric for Dallas ICE facility shooting
From CNN's Alejandra Jaramillo
Vice President JD Vance speaks at ConcordPadgett Regional Airport on Wednesday, in Concord, North Carolina.
Pool/Getty Images North America/Getty Images
Vice President JD Vance responded sharply to the deadly shooting at a US Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility in Dallas on Wednesday, calling it an act of politically motivated violence and directly blaming what he described as inflammatory rhetoric from Democratic leaders and the media.
“We’re still learning a little bit about it,” Vance said during remarks in Concord, North Carolina, “but what we know is that in Dallas, Texas, an ICE facility was opened fire upon by a violent left-wing extremist a person who wrote anti-ICE messaging on their bullets.”
The vice president claimed that the attack was politically driven, saying: “And there’s some evidence that we have that’s not yet public, but we know this person was politically motivated.”
The FBI has said it is investigating the shooting “as an act of targeted violence.” The suspected shooter is Joshua Jahn, according to three sources familiar with the case. Authorities said the shooter was found dead at the scene.
FBI Director Kash Patel posted an image of rounds recovered on X , with one of the five casings in the photo bearing the words “ANTI-ICE” written in blue ink.
Vance went on to accuse figures like California Gov. Gavin Newsom and left-leaning media outlets of vilifying law enforcement and creating an environment that fuels violence.
“When the left-wing media lies about what [ICE is] doing,” he said, “what they’re doing is encouraging crazy people to go and commit violence.”
“You don’t have to agree with Donald Trump’s immigration policies. But if your political rhetoric encourages violence against our law enforcement, you can go straight to hell.”
Link Copied!
ICE acting director says violence against agents has to stop
From CNN's Tori B. Powell
Acting Immigration and Customs Enforcement Director Todd Lyons described today’s shooting as “a tragic incident” that “unfolded so quickly.”
Lyons told Fox News this afternoon that the shooter fired into an open waiting area known as the sallyport, where agents brought in detainees. He said the ICE facility was “a definite target,” adding that windows, doors and vehicles were also fired at.
“It wasn’t directed at the detainees. It wasn’t directed at civilians on the street. It was a definite attack on law enforcement. He was there to attack that building,” Lyons told Fox.
He said everyone is “shook up” by the incident and called for an end to violence against ICE.
Regarding next steps after the Dallas shooting, Lyons told Fox securing the facility and ensuring safety is the agency’s top priority.
“What we got to do first and foremost is protect the men and women of ICE, harden up our facilities, make sure we’re safe,” he said. “Then we really got to target these people that are anti-ICE rhetoric or causing threats and really take a deep dive and see what happened with this gentleman right here.”
Link Copied!
What we know about the suspected Dallas ICE facility shooter
From CNN's Casey Tolan and Curt Devine
Joshua Jahn, the suspect who authorities believe killed a detainee and injured two others at a Dallas ICE facility, was previously charged a decade ago with delivering marijuana, court records show.
Jahn, 29, had lived in a Dallas suburb, according to public records. Three sources told CNN that he is the shooter, and authorities have said the gunman killed himself after opening fire.
In 2016, when he was 19 years old, Jahn was charged with delivering more than one-fourth ounce of marijuana. He pleaded guilty and the case again him was deferred, with Jahn being placed on probation, according to Collin County court records. The charge is classified in Texas law as a “state jail felony,” the least severe type of felony in the state.
Jahn voted in the Democratic primary in March 2020 and hasn’t voted since then, according to records provided to CNN by the Collin County Elections Department. Voters in Texas don’t declare a political party when registering to vote, but choose a party’s ballot when voting in primaries.
The Department of Homeland Security initially said two ICE detainees were dead and another was seriously injured, but later revised the death toll to one without providing further explanation.
This post has been updated with additional information.
Link Copied!
“We are better than this craven act of violence,” Dallas mayor says
From CNN’s Cindy Von Quednow and Jason Morris
Dallas Mayor Eric Johnson speaks during a press conference on April 23, in Dallas.
Julio Cortez/AP/File
Dallas Mayor Eric L. Johnson called for healing and unity after a shooting at an ICE facility left one person dead Wednesday.
“We are better than this craven act of violence,” the mayor said in a statement. “In moments like this, our city must stand together and support one another. We must heal.”
He said violence like Wednesday’s shooting should never happen and that it affected an entire community, not just law enforcement and the victims.
“It is an attack on our community and on our nation’s heritage of civil and democratic discourse,“ Johnson said. “We should all condemn violence intended to serve a political agenda and work together to end it.”
The Department of Homeland Security initially said two ICE detainees were dead and another was seriously injured, but later revised the death toll to one without providing further explanation.
This post has been updated with additional information.
Link Copied!

