Adam Cohn - Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, CNN Worldwide
Updated
          1:15 PM EST, Fri February 21, 2025
Adam Cohn
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, CNN Worldwide
Adam Cohn is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for CNN Worldwide.
Read Full Bio
About
Adam Cohn is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for CNN Worldwide, a division of Warner Bros. Discovery. Cohn was named to this position in 2022, and he is responsible for the financial leadership of CNN’s global television and digital business units, including CNN, CNN International, CNN Digital and CNN en Español.
Cohn first joined CNN in 2008, when he provided analytical, strategic and transactional support for all of CNN Worldwide’s new initiatives, business analytics, investments, joint ventures and acquisition opportunities. He has held several leadership positions throughout the media organization since then, to become Senior Vice President and Head of Finance for WBD Streaming – International, leading all budgeting, forecasting, financial strategic analysis for HBO Max, HBO and Discovery+ in all territories outside of the U.S. And previously, he was the Senior Vice President of Finance for WarnerMedia Sales and International, overseeing financial planning and analysis, modeling and cross-divisional project coordination for all U.S. advertising and distribution revenue, as well as the international operations for HBO and the legacy Turner brands – TNT, TBS, CNN, Cartoon Network, Adult Swim and TCM. He was also a part of the finance and corporate development teams that partnered with Turner Sports to acquire the multi-platform broadcast rights to NCAA March Madness and the NBA, as well as the leading digital sports platform, Bleacher Report. Prior to his time in media, Cohn worked at JPMorgan.
Cohn chairs the WBD Finance & Accounting Talent Council and is actively involved in the Diversity, Equity & Inclusion sub-committee. He also previously served as treasurer on the board of an Atlanta-based non-profit organization focused on early childhood education and literacy.
Cohn earned his Bachelor of Science Degree in Mechanical Engineering and Business from the University of Virginia.
Subscribe

