Transforming EV battery swaps in the UAE
By Yara Enany, CNN
Published
          9:13 AM EDT, Fri September 19, 2025
Link Copied!
Video Ad Feedback
Transforming EV battery swaps in the UAE
With support from CYVN Holdings, NIO’s debut power swap station in Abu Dhabi, marks a major step toward faster EV travel, replacing EV batteries in 3 minutes, signaling Abu Dhabi’s intent to change regional electric mobility.
5 Good Things 15 videos
Video Ad Feedback
Transforming EV battery swaps in the UAE
3:12
• Source: CNN
Video Ad Feedback
'They fought for a country that didn't fight for them': The US honors the 'Harlem Hellfighters'
4:18
Meet the waitress competing in an iconic Paris tradition
2:08
• Source: CNN
Video Ad Feedback
‘I think about music all the time’: Willie Nelson talks about the enduring power of music
5:24
Hear Willie Nelson's 'iconic' White House roof story
4:45
Farm Aid’s founding fathers focus on building healthy food chains
3:56
Singer Margo Price talks why she says the American dream is ‘disappearing’ and ‘almost impossible’
5:16
Once a farmer, now a congresswoman determined to keep ‘farms viable’
3:46
Rare ‘ancient beast’ fossil discovered by CNN anchor in South Dakota
2:51
How a poorly attended coming-of-age party turned into the quinceañera of the year
1:53
• Source: CNN
Video Ad Feedback
Is there a song of the summer? CNN takes to the streets of New York to find out
2:02
Army football player rushes to pull man from burning car
0:50
Man rescues child seen walking on monorail track at Hersheypark
1:10
‘It’s been unbelievable:’ Scottish brothers smash record for Pacific row
1:10
‘Hero’ Postman Rescues Laundry From Rain
0:39
Sign out
Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited.

