Dow closes at record high but Wall Street vet warns of red flags
3:54
Americans are obsessed with elite universities. Are parents to blame?
7:25
• Source: CNN
Video Ad Feedback
Americans who have a college degree vote differently than those who do not. Here's why that matters
7:26
Smerconish: 'These numbers tell us more about political violence than ideology ever could'
4:40
What makes an assassin? This journalist investigates
5:09
Video shows ICE agent drop gun during chaotic arrest
0:42
• Source: CNN
Video Ad Feedback
Former Trump WH Lawyer on DOJ going after Trump's enemies: "He will exact whatever revenge he can get."
2:33
Ex-DOJ attorney predicts more resignations as Trump's DOJ targets enemies
2:30
ICE agents tackle grocery store worker
0:56
ICE shoves woman to ground in courthouse
1:56
Immigrants fear deportation and violence after deadly Dallas ICE shooting
1:51
Man admits to killing parents in TV interview
1:24
• Source: CNN
Video Ad Feedback
Christian author on the rapture that didn’t happen: ‘It gives Christianity and the Bible a bad name’
5:04
Family of Virginia Giuffre steps up pressure to release the Epstein files
1:40
Texas Congressman says he doesn't trust FBI to investigate Dallas ICE facility attack
3:13
ICE agent says injuries ‘nothing major’ in new bodycam video
1:05
Sign out
Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited.

