Ad Feedback
High schools across the US are rolling out a new AI-assisted support service. CNN tested it out
Updated
          2:03 PM EDT, Tue September 9, 2025
Link Copied!
Video Ad Feedback
High schools across the US are rolling out a new AI-assisted support service. CNN tested it out
Link Copied!
Meet Sonny, an AI-assisted support system that teens can text with about their problems. The company behind Sonny says the service is currently available to thousands of students in dozens of school districts across the country. One expert tells CNN that any Sonny user is a "guinea pig.” CNN's Zach Wasser demoed the product to see how it actually works.
Business Bulletins 16 videos
Video Ad Feedback
High schools across the US are rolling out a new AI-assisted support service. CNN tested it out
5:16
Hacker uncovers Tesla crash evidence in minutes
6:19
Trump says China is on board with new TikTok deal
0:47
DOJ preparing to ask grand jury to indict ex-FBI chief Comey
4:50
'Long national late-nightmare is over:' Comedians react to Kimmel's return
1:11
Journalist on what he loved about Jimmy Kimmel’s return show
3:47
Fighting wildfires from space: 50+ satellites to track wildfires worldwide
3:06
Journalist shares prediction for Sinclair’s move with Kimmel
4:37
Expert: this new AI tool can forecast your risk for 1000 diseases
3:52
Black jobless rate highest since 2021
2:23
Transforming EV battery swaps in the UAE
03:12
How the FCC’s rules for media regulation has evolved over time
2:53
• Source: CNN
Video Ad Feedback
David Letterman criticizes ABC’s decision to take Kimmel’s show off the air as 'no good'
1:47
Check out what’s new in the iPhone Air
1:02
Dubai’s $1.6 billion tower signals global real estate ambitions
02:44
First look at the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses
2:17
Sign out
Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited.

