Style Architecture • 6 min read
Why the Chrysler Building is an Art Deco icon
Published
          4:58 AM EDT, Mon April 28, 2025
Link Copied!
The Chrysler Building has become emblematic of the Art Deco period — and was one of the era's last architectural triumphs before the Great Depression halted New York's rapidly-changing skyline.
Gary Hershorn/Corbis/Getty Images
CNN —
Though it only had the distinction of being the world’s tallest building for 11 months, the Chrysler Building in midtown Manhattan has remained one of the most recognizable skyscrapers in the world — and a glimmering architectural icon of the Art Deco period, which celebrates its centennial on April 28.
The 1920s and 1930s gave rise to buildings such as Chicago’s Tribune Tower and New York’s Waldorf Astoria hotel that mixed materials and colors through the use of steel, glass, terracotta, stone and marble. This new modern style prized vertical designs that drew the eye upwards, decorative glass and metalwork with geometric and floral motifs, high-shine lacquered surfaces, and unique sculptural adornments — overall, a movement toward originality instead of references to the past.
“Until the 1920s, American architects tended to design their buildings with one eye looking over their left shoulder of Europe,” said Anthony W. Robins, a founding member and former vice president of The Art Deco Society of New York, in a phone call. Architectural styles in the US often followed revivals popular across the West, he noted, such as the Greek, Romanesque and Italian Renaissance revivals that fell in and out of favor.
But Art Deco didn’t have a name for decades; in 1966, during renewed interest in the era, a group of curators named the style after the “Exposition Internationale des Arts Décoratifs et Industriels Modernes,” which took place on April 28, 1925 in Paris and drew some 16 million visitors over seven months, forging a new period of architecture, design and decorative arts that influenced many parts of the world.
The Chrysler Building last changed hands in 2019 and is primarily used as office space.
Drew Angerer/Getty Images
The 1,046-foot-tall Chrysler Building, completed in May of 1930, was the pinnacle of both the then-unnamed Art Deco period and the skyscraper boom that rapidly transformed New York City’s skyline. It dethroned the Eiffel Tower as the world’s tallest structure, and was only eclipsed by the Empire State Building before such lofty projects came to a halt as the global economy cratered during the Great Depression, Robins noted.
“(The Chrysler Building) and the Empire State Building were the culmination of this huge skyscraper race,” he said. “They weren’t the last to open up before the Depression put an end to it, but they were … the two that took the title of the ‘world’s tallest building.’”
Higher and higher
Designed by the architect William van Alen for the automotive magnate Walter P. Chrysler, who took over the project from the developer and politician William H. Reynolds, the tower features a steel frame and white and gray bricks that ascend skyward with three vertical columns of windows on each side, flanked by horizontal rows that appear like notches at each level. Climaxing with a cascade of curvilinear sunbursts at its peak, it tapers off to a gleaming 185-foot-tall spire — one that had to be secretly assembled and erected from the inside to deliver on its promise to become the world’s new tallest building.
Construction on the skyscraper progressed rapidly, taking just under three years and completed in May 1930.
Charles Rivers/Museum of the City of New York/Getty Images
To ensure the Chrysler Building became the tallest man-made structure in the world, the height of its spire was kept secret and hoisted internally.
Bettmann Archive/Getty Images
During construction, the Chrysler’s superlative was at risk by a structure rising in tandem at 40 Wall Street. Though the New York Times reported in October 1929 that Paul Starrett, the downtown building’s developer, denied competing for “height supremacy,” the building plans had changed to accommodate additional floors. The press played up the rivalry over the course of a year, Robins noted, until Van Alen resolved it by having the spire covertly assembled from five parts on the 65th floor and quickly hoisted up in 90 minutes so that competitors would not know its final height until it was completed.

