Amy Entelis - Executive Vice President for Talent, CNN Originals and Creative Development
Updated
          3:00 PM EDT, Tue March 25, 2025
Amy Entelis
Executive Vice President for Talent, CNN Originals and Creative Development
Amy Entelis serves as executive vice president for talent, CNN Originals and creative development for CNN Worldwide. She is based in New York.
CNN Digital Expansion 2022 Amy Entelis
About
Amy Entelis serves as executive vice president for talent, CNN Originals and creative development for CNN Worldwide. She is based in New York.
Entelis is responsible for the development, production, and acquisition of original, long-form premium content for CNN Worldwide. Since joining CNN in 2012, she has overseen and executive produced more than 60 multi-part documentary series and over 70 feature-length documentary films, earning more than 120 awards and 450 nominations for the cable network, including CNN’s first Academy Award® win for Navalny. Entelis also is the senior talent executive at CNN Worldwide, responsible for the recruitment and development of all on-air talent for CNN programming and platforms. Under her leadership, CNN launched CNN Originals, which includes the following premium content brands: CNN Original Series, for which Entelis and her team develop nonfiction programming; CNN Films, for which Entelis produces and acquires documentary films for festival, theatrical, broadcast, and streaming distribution; CNN Studios, an internal production studio, for which Entelis creates long-form programming for the network’s global platforms; CNN FlashDocs, a quick turn documentary unit focused on timely and topical pop culture stories; and CNN Presents, for which Entelis acquires encore runs of notable unscripted series and films for broadcast on CNN. Entelis’ film and series work can be seen on CNN, the CNN Original Hub on Max and discovery+, the CNN Originals FAST channel, and for pay TV subscription via CNN.com, CNN apps and cable operator platforms.
Over the last decade, Entelis and her team have built the CNN Original Series brand, bringing to audiences twelve seasons of the 13-time Primetime Emmy® Award-winning Anthony Bourdain Parts Unknown, which won Primetime Emmy® Awards for Outstanding Informational Series in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, and 2018 as well as a Peabody Award for excellence and meritorious work. Entelis’ series content team developed and executive produced the two-time Emmy® Award-winning Stanley Tucci: Searching for Italy, which received consecutive Primetime Emmy® Awards in 2021, 2022 and 2023 for Outstanding Hosted Nonfiction Program, and the five-time Primetime Emmy® Award-winning United Shades of America with W. Kamau Bell, which received back-to-back Primetime Emmy® Awards in 2017, 2018 and 2019 for Outstanding Unstructured Reality Program. To date, CNN Original Series has earned a total of 22 Emmy® Awards.
Developed under Entelis’ leadership for CNN Original Series are: the forthcoming Eva Longoria: Searching for Spain; The Many Lives of Martha Stewart; United States of Scandal with Jake Tapper; See it Loud: The History of Black Television, executive produced by LeBron James and Maverick Carter; Eva Longoria: Searching for Mexico; This is Life with Lisa Ling; the Primetime Emmy® Award-nominated “Decades Series”: The Sixties, The Seventies, The Eighties, The Nineties, The 2000s, and The 2010s, executive produced by Tom Hanks, Gary Goetzman, and Mark Herzog; Reframed: Marilyn Monroe, narrated by Jessica Chastain; The Murdochs: Empire of Influence; First Ladies; The History of Comedy, executive produced by Sean Hayes, Todd Milliner, Mark Herzog, and Christopher Cowen; Lincoln: Divided We Stand, narrated by Sterling K Brown; Diana; Race for the White House, narrated by Mahershala Ali; Soundtracks: Songs That Made History, executive produced by Dwayne Johnson; American Dynasties: The Kennedys; The Windsors: Inside the Royal Dynasty; Jerusalem: City of Faith and Fury, narrated by Ewan McGregor; The Radical Story of Patty Hearst; Christiane Amanpour: Sex & Love Around the World; Chicagoland and Death Row Stories, with executive producer Robert Redford’s Sundance Productions; The Hunt with John Walsh; Finding Jesus: Faith. Fact. Forgery; Declassified: Untold Stories of American Spies, hosted by former Congressman Mike Rogers; and The Wonder List with Bill Weir.
In 2023, Entelis developed and launched the Sunday primetime weekly series, The Whole Story with Anderson Cooper. Hosted by Cooper, The Whole Story is a collection of single subject, one-hour episodes that showcase character-driven stories, special interviews, profiles, and investigative deep dives featuring reporting from CNN’s anchors and correspondents. To date, The Whole Story with Anderson Cooper has been honored with 5 Emmy® awards and 12 nominations.
During her tenure, Entelis extended the original series franchise to CNN sister network, HLN, and launched scores of HLN Original Series dedicated to true crime, mysteries, and investigations. Select titles include Forensic Files II, long considered the gold-standard of crime & justice non-fiction programming, Very Scary People, and How It Really Happened.
Since 2012, CNN Films has acquired, commissioned, or executive produced more than 65 feature and short films, 40% of which were directed by female filmmakers. Recent titles include the Oscar®, BAFTA, and PGA Award-winning, Navalny, directed by Daniel Roher, about the attempted assassination of Russian opposition leader, Alexey Navalny; Carville: Winning is Everything, Stupid! from acclaimed director Matt Tyrnauer; Luther: Never Too Much from Dawn Porter; the Emmy® winning Little Richard: I Am Everything, directed by Lisa Cortés, which world premiered at the 2023 Sundance Film Festival where it was acquired for theatrical distribution by Magnolia Pictures; The Last Movie Stars directed by Ethan Hawke about the lives and careers of actors and humanitarians Joanne Woodward and Paul Newman; Gabby Giffords: Won’t Back Down from Emmy® Award winners Julie Cohen and Betsy West, who were granted unprecedented access to the former Congresswoman; Citizen Ashe, directed by Academy Award® nominee Sam Pollard and Rex Miller, about tennis great and humanitarian Arthur Ashe; Roadrunner: A Film About Anthony Bourdain, executive produced with HBO Max, directed by Academy Award® winner Morgan Neville, and distributed in theaters by Focus Features; and Carole King & James Taylor: Just Call Out My Name, directed by Frank Marshall.
Prior CNN Films executive produced by Entelis include: Apollo 11, directed by Todd Douglas Miller, featured on 2020 Oscars Shortlist in the category of Best Documentary Feature; Academy Award® nominee RBG from Betsy West and Julie Cohen; BAFTA nominee Three Identical Strangers, directed by Tim Wardle; Emmy® Award-winning Dreamland: The Burning of Black Wall Street, directed by Salima Koroma and executive produced by LeBron James; Lady Boss: The Jackie Collins Story, directed by Laura Fairrie; John Lewis: Good Trouble, directed by Dawn Porter; Linda Ronstadt: The Sound of My Voice, directed by Rob Epstein and Jeffrey Friedman, and which won Best Music Film at the 63rd Annual Grammy® Awards; LFG, executive produced with partner HBO Max, which follows the U.S. Women’s Soccer team fight for pay equity; Halston, directed by Frédéric Tcheng; Scandalous: The Untold Story of the National Inquirer, directed by Mark Landsman; Love, Gilda, directed by Lisa D’Apolito; Academy Award® nominee The Hunting Ground, directed by Kirby Dick; Steve Jobs: The Man in the Machine, directed by Alex Gibney; Life Itself, directed by Steve James; We Will Rise: Michelle Obama’s Mission to Educate Girls Around the World, which features Former First Lady Michelle Obama, Meryl Streep, Freida Pinto, and CNN’s Isha Sesay, and was honored with a Television Academy Honors Award and a CINE Golden Eagle; Whitey: United States of America v. James J. Bulger, directed by Joe Berlinger; Legion of Brothers, directed by Greg Barker; The Regan Show, directed by Pacho Velez and Sierra Pettengill; American Jail, directed by Roger Ross Williams; Elián, directed by Tim Miller and Ross Golden; Jeremiah Tower: The Last Magnificent, directed by Lydia Tenaglia; The End: Inside The Last Days of the Obama White House, directed by Toby Oppenheimer; Blackfish, directed by Gabriela Cowperthwaite; and many more.
CNN Films has been honored and recognized by the most prestigious film and journalism institutions in the industry, including the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (1 Oscar® win for Navalny and 4 nominations: RBG, The Hunting Ground, Glen Campbell: I’ll Be Me); The Television Academy (11 Emmy® wins and 27 Emmy® nominations: Apollo 11, RBG, Little Richard: I Am Everything, Dreamland: The Burning of Black Wall Street, The Hunt for Planet B, The Hunting Ground, Julia, Trophy, Life Itself, Dinosaur 13); the George Foster Peabody Awards (Apollo 11); The Alfred I. duPont–Columbia University Awards (2 wins: Navalny and RBG); The Producers Guild (3 wins: Navalny, Apollo 11, Life Itself); The Directors Guild (Three Identical Strangers); the British Academy of Film and Television Arts (2 wins for Navalny and Super/Man: The Christopher Reeve Story ; 4 nominations: Apollo 11, RBG, Three Identical Strangers, Blackfish); and The Film Independent Spirit Awards (Apollo 11, nominee). Collectively, CNN Films has been honored with over 75 awards and over 285 award nominations.
Entelis also leads the identification, recruitment, and development of on-air correspondents, anchors, and contributors for CNN Worldwide. Throughout her time at the network, Entelis has hired and developed the careers of hundreds of journalists, strengthening CNN’s reporting and anchor core and further bolstering the global prominence of the network.
Entelis began her career in television journalism at ABC News, initially as a producer on the weekly news magazine 20/20, and later a producer for World News Tonight with Peter Jennings. During her thirty-year tenure, Entelis worked in various roles of increasing responsibility, ultimately serving as senior vice president for talent strategy, development, and research. ABC News President Roone Arledge recruited Entelis for her first management role with a mandate to diversify the network, bringing in many female reporters and journalists of color for on-air positions. Entelis then pioneered the first system in network news that coordinated the identification, recruitment, and development of all on-air talent. Over several decades, she recruited and managed talent for the network’s most high-profile news programs including Good Morning America, World News Tonight, Nightline, and 20/20. While at ABC News, Entelis received several journalism honors, including a National News Emmy®, a duPont-Columbia Award, a Planned Parenthood Media Excellence Award, the Headliner Award from the Association for Women in Communications, and a Front Page Award from the Newswomen’s Club of New York for Distinguished Journalism.
A graduate of Vassar College, Entelis received a Master of Science degree in journalism from Columbia University and is a member of the Board of Visitors for Columbia University’s Graduate School of Journalism.
Subscribe

