Style Architecture • 6 min read
Designing the Serpentine Pavilion is an architect’s dream job. Meet the woman behind this year’s building
By Leah Dolan, CNN
Published
          6:36 AM EDT, Thu June 5, 2025
Link Copied!
The 2025 Serpentine Pavilion, "A Capsule in Time," designed by Marina Tabassum.
Serpentine
London CNN —
Even on a grey, drizzly morning in London, entering this year’s Serpentine Pavilion — the 25th architectural structure to be erected in Kensington Gardens — will bathe you in a warm glow. Packed in between curved wooden beams, translucent honeyed yellow square panels filter the weak sunlight into a more inviting summer afternoon hue. “I try to work with light,” architect Marina Tabassum told CNN ahead of Friday’s public opening. “On a sunny day, it’s glowing. But even when it’s not sunny you get to see a softer effect of the light coming through.”
Since 2000, the chance to design a public space in the center of London is awarded by the Serpentine gallery each year to an architect who hasn’t built in Britain before. “London as a global city has a very international exchange with music, fashion and art,” said gallery co-director Hans Ulrich Obrist, who has been working on the project every summer since 2006, in a video call. “It’s an interesting paradox. The UK has produced so many architects who radiate internationally… But has not historically welcomed foreign architects to build (here.).”
Tabassum, who founded her own architectural firm in Bangladesh in 2005, is more used to building temporary structures for climate refugees in India than manicured European public spaces. In 2023, she designed flood-proof, flat-pack homes for those living in Bangladesh’s river deltas — where heavy riverbank erosion has resulted in entire towns lost to water. The tall, free-standing treehouses were designed to be folded and moved elsewhere by their inhabitants who, because of the area’s vulnerability to climate change, live a transitory lifestyle.
Tabassum's capsule-shaped structure is punctuated by a gingko tree — a climate-resistant species of flora.
Serpentine
Impermanence, therefore, is a key part of Tabassum’s architectural DNA. “When I started studying architecture, (my university) was always referencing (architect) Louis Kahn’s (Capitol Complex in Dhaka),” she said, referring to National Parliament Building. “It has a presence which gives you the sense that architecture is here to stay, that it can last for maybe hundreds of years… Once we started working more in the coasts of Bangladesh, in the places where land constantly moves, that’s when we realized that architecture doesn’t have to be static.”
While this might be her first building project in the UK, as well as outside of Bangladesh, according to Tabassum, her familiarity with constructing for the present, rather than forever, is what made the project less daunting. “The pavilion seemed almost similar (to my previous work),” reflected Tabassum, who has traveled to London several times to see the past structures in person. “It has a different shape and form, but it actually holds similar values.”
Titled “A Capsule in Time,” Tabassum’s pod-shaped shelter is made entirely of wood. In its center stands a semi-mature gingko tree — a rare climate resistant species of flora that can withstand temperatures ranging between -30 to 100 degrees Fahrenheit. The tree’s symbolic defiance is “the heart and soul of the entire space,” said Tabassum, and will remain in the gardens after the structure is disassembled.
In 2008, Frank Gehry designed the Serpentine Pavilion. The clumsy-looking wooden structure now lives on a vineyard in France.
Cate Gillon/Getty Images
From single-use tent to seasonal landmark
The first Serpentine Pavilion was designed by Zaha Hadid — the celebrated Iraqi-British architect and artist who, at the time, had never built in the country, even after three decades of living in the UK. The marquee was intended to be a one-night shelter for a fundraising dinner organized by the gallery, but the unique shape and atmosphere of Hadid’s work struck one attendee in particular: former member of parliament and then secretary of state for culture, media and sport, Lord Chris Smith. “There was a lot of excitement around it,” said Obrist. Smith was able to receive the correct planning permission that enabled the single-use tent to stand for three months. “Everyone was very surprised by the idea that the pavilion could stay a bit longer,” Obrist added.
In the 25 years since then, the Serpentine has platformed celebrated “starchitects” like Rem Koolhaas to Frank Gehry, as well as giving lesser-known names their big UK break. “The pavilion in our architectural world is something quite exciting,” said Tabassum, noting that “for a long time, we (architects) look forward to who will be making it and what will be the design.”
The sloping ramp of Olafur Eliasson and Kjetil Thorsen's building in 2007 was beloved by joggers everywhere and used as a stretching space.
View Pictures/Universal Images Group/Getty Images
For some, it’s a gateway to international acclaim and opportunity. Two former pavilion designers have gone on to win Pritzker Prizes — including Liu Jiakun, who took home the honor this year — while others, such as Kazuyo Sejima and Ryue Nishizawa, have been   awarded RIBA Royal Gold Medals. Many go on to secure prestigious new projects restoring or reimagining global landmarks.
“Initially the pavilion scheme was very much focused on well-known architects who had long careers,” said Obrist. “It’s really exciting now that we can also work with more emerging voices.”

