Election Center 2025
Link Copied!
This November, two blue states where President Donald Trump gained ground in 2024 will elect new governors — offering a potential preview of next year’s critical midterms. In New York City, voters will choose a mayor to lead the nation’s largest city for the next four years. Plus, special congressional elections this year will impact the balance of power in a closely divided House of Representatives.
September 23 contests
Arizona House 7 special election
In Arizona’s 7th congressional district, which stretches from the Phoenix area south to the Mexican border and includes parts of Tucson, Democrat Adelita Grijalva, a former county supervisor, will fill the congressional seat vacated by her late father, longtime Democratic Rep. Raul Grijalva. Republican Daniel Butierrez is a contractor who ran against the elder Grijalva last year. Grijalva’s win will likely provide enough support to force a vote on releasing more files related to the Jeffrey Epstein case .
Ad Feedback
September 9 contests
Virginia House 11 special election
Fairfax County Supervisor James Walkinshaw will replace his former boss , longtime Democratic Rep. Gerry Connolly, as the representative for this district in the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington D.C. Walkinshaw defeated lobbyist and former FBI agent Stewart Whitson. The Democratic victory further tightens the narrow GOP majority in the House.
Boston non-partisan mayoral primary
Progressive Boston Mayor Michelle Wu and Josh Kraft, a son of New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft, will face off in a non-partisan general election on November 4.
Ad Feedback
August 5 contests
Detroit non-partisan mayoral primary
Nine candidates are running for mayor of Detroit hoping to replace outgoing mayor Mike Duggan, who has launched an independent bid for governor rather than seek a 4th term in office. The race is formally non-partisan with the top two candidates advancing to the general election on November 4.
Ad Feedback
July 15 contests
Arizona House 7 special primary
Arizona’s 7th congressional district, which stretches from the Phoenix area south to the Mexican border and includes parts of Tucson, has been without representation since long-time Democratic Rep. Raul Grijalva died in March. Grijalva’s daughter Adelita, a former county supervisor, won the Democratic primary against 25-year-old political content creator Deja Foxx and former state Rep. Daniel Hernandez. She’ll be favored in the September 23 general election against Republican Daniel Butierez.
Ad Feedback
June 24 contests
New York City mayoral primary
Zohran Mamdani officially clinched the Democratic nomination in the race to become New York City’s next mayor on July 1, pulling off a stunning upset over former governor Andrew Cuomo. While Mamdani, a 33-year-old democratic socialist, had been all but assured to be the party’s nominee after the June 24 primary, he hadn’t won a majority of first-round votes. It took a tabulation of the city’s ranked-choice votes to put Mamdani over 50% he needed to win.
Ad Feedback
June 17 contests
Virginia results
The field for November’s governor election is already set with Republican Winsome Earle-Sears, Virginia’s lieutenant governor, facing former Democratic Rep. Abigail Spanberger but Democrats picked their nominees for lieutenant governor and attorney general . Republicans already had their nominees for both offices.
Ad Feedback
June 10 contests
New Jersey results
Democratic Rep. Mikie Sherrill defeated a crowded field of challengers , including mayors Ras Baraka of Newark and Steven Fulop of Jersey City to get the chance to replace outgoing Democratic Gov. Phil Murphy. On the Republican side, President Donald Trump’s endorsement helped 2021 nominee Jack Ciattarelli defeat conservative former talk radio host Bill Spadea . In November, Democrats will try to win a third consecutive term in the governor’s mansion, something that hasn’t happened since the 1960s, while Republicans hope to capitalize on their recent gains in the traditionally blue state.
Ad Feedback
April 1 contests
Florida results
Republicans won two special Congressional elections in Florida , which were held to replace former GOP Reps. Michael Waltz and Matt Gaetz. While Waltz and Gaetz both won by more than 30 percentage points in November, the special election results were considerably closer.
Wisconsin results
Dane County Circuit Court Judge Susan Crawford won an open seat on the Wisconsin Supreme Court to maintain the court’s 4-3 liberal majority. Crawford easily won the non-partisan race, despite Trump’s narrow 2024 victory in the state. Voters also approved a ballot measure to enshrine the state’s voter ID requirement in the state constitution and reelected the state’s Superintendent of Public Instruction.
Source: Results data via The Associated Press; Projections by CNN
Subscribe

