Work for CNN
Sports • 3 min read
Guardians’ David Fry out of hospital with facial and nasal fractures after being struck in face by 99 mph pitch
By
Sep 24, 2025, 4:23 PM ET
PUBLISHED
Sep 24, 2025, 4:48 AM ET
Cleveland Guardians star David Fry was hit in the face with a fastball.
Sue Ogrocki/AP
Link
Link Copied!
﻿The Cleveland Guardians announced designated hitter David Fry did not require surgery and was released from the hospital on Wednesday after being struck in the face by a pitch during his team’s win against the Detroit Tigers on Tuesday.
The worrying incident occurred in the sixth inning, when Fry tried to bunt a 99 mph fastball from Detroit’s Tarik Skubal.
The ball missed the bat completely and hit Fry straight in the face. The 29-year-old fell to the floor instantly with his hands on his face, before being attended to by medics on the field.
David Fry exited the game after being hit in the face by a pitch. He was able to walk under his own power and was carted off the field. pic.twitter.com/IrFO20gBbR
— FOX Sports: MLB (@MLBONFOX) September 24, 2025
Fry, though, was later able to stand up and walk to a cart before being taken to the hospital.
After the game, Guardians manager Stephen Vogt told reporters Fry “stayed conscious the whole time.”
On Wednesday, the team said the three-year pro was released from the Cleveland Clinic after he “sustained multiple, minimally displaced, left-sided facial and nasal fractures.” He is expected to make a full recovery in six-to-eight weeks.
In a team statement, the club expressed appreciation for how the situation was handled.
“The Cleveland Guardians would like to express gratitude to several groups who were intimately involved in the emergent care and treatment of David during last night’s game: Physicians Ambulance, the caregivers at Lutheran Hospital and Cleveland Clinic emergency departments, and the nurses and physicians at CCF working in the ENT and plastic surgery departments,” the press release states.
“Thank you all for your professionalism, expertise and compassion.”
Fry was tended to by his team on the field before being taken to hospital.
Sue Ogrocki/AP
Scary moment
Like many others inside the stadium, Detroit’s Skubal looked shaken by the incident, pacing around the field as Fry was receiving treatment.
Speaking to reporters after the game, Skubal said watching Fry go down was “really tough.”
“I’ve already reached out to him. I’m sure his phone is blowing up. I just want to make sure he’s all right,” he said, per Associated Press .
“Obviously, he seemed like he was OK coming off the field and hopefully it stays that way. I know sometimes with those things that can change. So hopefully he’s all right.
“I look forward to hopefully at some point tonight or (Wednesday) morning getting a text from him and making sure he’s all good because there’s things that are bigger than the game and the health of him is more important than a baseball game.”
Detroit Tigers' Tarik Skubal was left shaken after seeing his pitch hit Fry's face.
David Richard/Imagn/Reuters
Skubal, who is the reigning AL Cy Young Award winner, struggled to regain composure after the incident, making a string of mistakes.
After the game restarted, he threw a wild pitch to Fry’s replacement George Valera, before making another blunder when trying to throw the ball to first between his legs. He then was called for a balk in the sixth inning as the Guardians got back into the game.
The Guardians eventually went on to win 5-2.
Facebook

