Apple introduces ‘newest member of the iPhone family’
0:58
Take a ride on a 155mph sleeper train to Hong Kong
1:30
Reporter doesn’t have diabetes but wore a glucose monitor anyway. Here's what she learned
2:19
This AI-powered shopping cart could be the solution to self-checkout headaches
3:00
These tiny houses cost $50k and can be built in an hour
2:11
How these floating homes might withstand hurricane conditions
2:26
This robot lets pilots touch, feel deep-sea objects without getting wet
1:39
Are these building blocks a solution to the plastic problem?
2:46
Delta wants to eliminate current crowded airport screens
2:20
Tech giant's new robotaxi with removable steering wheel not legal yet in China
1:18
The world's 'most fuel efficient' commercial airplane wants to make flying cheaper
1:08
Farmers around the world are struggling. Your pee could help
3:33
Could turbocharging trees help solve the climate crisis?
3:13
Hasbro 3D-prints your face on its action figure toys
1:35
Want to live in the sky? See this futuristic flying hotel concept
1:24
This Wyoming town wants a nuclear reactor nearby. Here's why.
4:46
The Mayflower 400 just crossed the Atlantic without any crew on board
1:29
This mobile robot can reserve parking spots and then charge your EV
1:59
Amazon introduces new warehouse robot, says it's not replacing human workers
1:06
Sign out
Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited.

