Science Life • 3 min read
First ever recording of leopard sharks mating in the wild reveals ‘threesome’
By
Sep 24, 2025, 11:26 AM ET
PUBLISHED
Sep 24, 2025, 6:52 AM ET
The video is believed to be the world’s first observation of leopard sharks mating in the wild.
Hugo Lassauce/UniSC/Aquarium des Lagons
Link Copied!
Follow
Endangered leopard sharks have been observed mating in the wild for the first time, with scientists witnessing a “threesome” involving two males and a female.
The encounter was filmed by Hugo Lassauce, a marine biologist at the University of the Sunshine Coast, Australia, and documented in a research paper published in the Journal of Ethology on Thursday.
Lassauce told CNN that mating events are rare to witness in any shark species, and researchers have only previously seen courtship interactions, where a male chases after a female, but not the act itself.
Leopard sharks, or Stegostoma tigrinum, are found in the Indian Ocean and the western Pacific Ocean, but populations are decreasing, according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature, which lists the species as endangered.
After copulating, the two males rested immobile on the seafloor for a few minutes.
Hugo Lassauce/UniSC/Aquarium des Lagons
They have largely been studied in captivity, with little known about how they reproduce in the wild.
As part of his research, Lassauce monitors a site in New Caledonia, a French territory in the South Pacific, in collaboration with the Aquarium des Lagons, a local aquarium.
Leopard sharks are known to congregate at the site at certain times of the year, and “we suspected this aggregation to be for mating purposes,” Lassauce told CNN.
However, no one had seen a mating event — until now.
During a dive on July 12, 2024, Lassauce said, he “came across these two males grabbing the female’s pectoral fins with their mouth.”
A still from the video recorded by Lassauce
Hugo Lassauce/UniSC/Aquarium des Lagons
Recognizing the potential significance of what he was seeing, Lassauce filmed the sharks for 90 minutes to make the first known recording of such an event.
According to the paper, the three sharks, all of which were around 2.3 meters (7.6 feet) in length, were spotted on the seafloor.
Both of the males held onto the female, who would occasionally struggle to free herself, for more than an hour.
One of the males then mated with the female for 63 seconds, before the second male did the same, lasting 47 seconds.
After copulating, the two males lay immobile on the seafloor as the female swam away.
Lassauce explained that the males are simply exhausted by the process.

