With the show on pause last week, Disney CEO Bob Iger and his leadership team sought to lower the proverbial temperature and get Kimmel back on the air.
Following discussions with Kimmel and his attorneys, Disney announced that the show would resume production on Tuesday.
The company gently chastised Kimmel in a statement, calling the aftermath of the Kirk killing an “emotional moment for our country” and saying “we felt some of the comments were ill-timed and thus insensitive.”
Kimmel said on the air Tuesday night that he “was not happy” with the suspension. But mostly, he expressed gratitude to Disney for “allowing me to use their platform” night after night.
He also poked fun at the fact that Tuesday’s show was preempted in dozens of markets across the US, including major cities like Washington, DC, Seattle and Nashville. That’s because Sinclair and Nexstar are continuing to protest Kimmel.
And, as usual, Kimmel made some jokes at Trump’s expense. He shared a clip of Trump on Air Force One last week, attacking Kimmel for having “no ratings.”
Kimmel then retorted on stage: “Well, I do tonight.”
On Wednesday, Nexstar released a statement saying that it is now “engaged in productive discussions with executives at The Walt Disney Company” to ensure Kimmel’s show “reflects and respects the diverse interests of the communities we serve.” It maintained that while those discussions continue, the late-night program will remain preempted on their stations.
Trump goes after ABC
About an hour before the broadcast, Trump weighed in on ABC’s restoration of the show for the first time, commenting on Truth Social that “the White House was told by ABC that his Show was cancelled!”
Trump once again used his political platform to threaten ABC, saying of Kimmel, “He is yet another arm of the DNC and, to the best of my knowledge, that would be a major Illegal Campaign Contribution. I think we’re going to test ABC out on this.”
“Let’s see how we do,” Trump continued. “Last time I went after them, they gave me $16 million dollars. This one sounds even more lucrative.”
Disney agreed to pay Trump about $16 million last December to settle a defamation lawsuit that he had lodged against ABC.
Stephanie Elam and Elizabeth Wagmeister contributed reporting.
People in entertainment

