5 Good Things: The Lucky Guy with a Tooth for an Eye CNN 5 Things
The last time the Chicago River Swim happened was when Calvin Coolidge was president. These bears in Alaska bulk up for the winter – and for internet glory. A rare surgery brought one man’s world back into focus. New space technology might help fight wildfires. Plus, the 100+ year long streak is over for a family in Texas family.  

Sign up for the CNN 5 Good Things newsletter here. 



Host/Producer: Krista Bo Polanco 

Producer: Eryn Mathewson 

Showrunner: Faiz Jamil 

Senior Producer: Felicia Patinkin 

Editorial Support: Alexander Rodway
Sep 27, 2025
Trump denies enemies list, Kimmel’s show restored, ICE officer backlash & more CNN 5 Things
President Donald Trump is threatening to target his perceived political foes after James Comey’s indictment. The blackout of “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” is over. An ICE agent’s courthouse confrontation is sparking outrage. New details are emerging about Pete Hegseth’s surprise gathering of top military officials. Plus, the new storm system that could impact the US.
Sep 26, 2025
Netanyahu’s UN speech, stubborn inflation, government shutdown looms & more CNN 5 Things
Israel's prime minister attacked Iran and Western countries in a fiery speech at the UN today. We have the latest on the indictment of former FBI director James Comey. Americans' spending went up last month but so did inflation. A federal shutdown is just days away with no solution in sight. Plus, a celebrity battle over non-stick cookware.
Sep 26, 2025
Comey indictment, imported drugs tariffs, Hamas interview & more CNN 5 Things
Former FBI director James Comey has been indicted by the DOJ. President Donald Trump is slapping a huge levy on some medicines made outside the US. CNN has interviewed a senior Hamas official. A mysterious gathering of US military personnel is being called by Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth. Plus, the reason why Russia is banning fuel exports.
Sep 26, 2025
6 mins
ICE shooter’s note, Amazon’s historic settlement, ‘Diddy’ in court & more CNN 5 Things
Authorities gave new findings in their Dallas ICE field office shooting investigation. President Donald Trump weighed in on the pressure campaign to indict former FBI Director James Comey. We’ll explain why the defense secretary’s sudden move to meet military officers next week is highly unusual. We have details about Amazon’s settlement with the FTC over Prime subscriptions. Plus, Sean “Diddy” Combs makes his latest court appearance ahead of his sentencing.
Sep 25, 2025
US economy’s comeback, struggling Starbucks, abortion drug questions & more CNN 5 Things
We’ll break down new, promising economic data. Starbucks announces store closures and another round of layoffs. The FDA says it will study the safety and efficacy of the widely-used abortion drug mifepristone. We’re a step closer to a US TikTok deal. Plus, a Paris court has ruled a former French President must go to prison.
Sep 25, 2025
Federal layoffs threat, James Comey indictment, Jimmy Kimmel ratings & more CNN 5 Things
With a government shutdown looming, the White House is threatening more federal firings. We have the latest on the shooting at an ICE detention facility in Dallas. Federal prosecutors are weighing up an indictment for former FBI director James Comey. The UN General Assembly is set to hear from the Palestinian Authority president today. Plus, how Jimmy Kimmel fared on his return to his late-night show.
Sep 25, 2025
ICE detainee killed, Joe Rogan defends Kimmel, fed workers rehired & more CNN 5 Things
We start with an update on a deadly shooting at an ICE facility in Dallas. Joe Rogan weighs in on Jimmy Kimmel’s suspension. A DOJ official is walking back a recent threat to investigate an FBI agent. The Trump administration is offering purged federal workers a chance. Plus, a noteworthy forecast in the final months of hurricane season.
Sep 24, 2025
Texas ICE shooting, ‘real bear’ Russia, Rapture Tok & more CNN 5 Things
Multiple people have been shot at an ICE facility in Dallas. Russia has pushed back on President Donald Trump’s claim that Ukraine can take back territory occupied by Russia. A survey of business leaders reveals how much tariffs are affecting US inflation. International health agencies are reacting to Trump’s claims linking Tylenol to autism. Plus, why a group of TikTokers think a religious rapture could happen today.
Sep 24, 2025
6 mins
Kimmel monologue, Trump’s ‘big shift’ on Russia, AZ special election & more CNN 5 Things
An emotional Jimmy Kimmel returned to ABC and attacked attempts to curb free speech. Ukraine’s president is hailing a “big shift” from President Donald Trump on Russia. We have the results of Arizona’s special election. A powerful typhoon has led to more than two million evacuations in China. Plus, an update on the summer camp where girls and counselors were killed in July’s Texas flooding.
Sep 24, 2025

