Stranded UK F-35 jet becomes unexpected star in Indian tourism campaign
Story by Reuters
Updated
          11:06 PM EDT, Thu July 3, 2025
Link Copied!
Fishermen travel in a boat in the tributary waters of the Periyar River at Munambam on the outskirts of Kochi in the southern state of Kerala, India, January 21, 2019.
Sivaram V/Reuters
Reuters —
India’s southern state of Kerala has found a unique ambassador to promote its coconut palm-lined beaches, backwaters and vibrant culture to tourists - a British F-35 fighter jet that has been stranded there since mid-June.
The Royal Navy aircraft was forced to make an emergency landing at the airport of the state capital Thiruvananthapuram on June 14 and has been grounded ever since, despite efforts to repair it.
An AI-generated image of the stealth aircraft parked on the tarmac surrounded by coconut trees has gone viral after it was shared by Kerala’s tourism department on Wednesday.
“This was part of our tourism campaign. It has been one of the most innovative and eye-catching ones… It’s all in good humour and creativity,” Biju K., Kerala’s tourism secretary, told Reuters.
In the viral social media post, originally created by entertainment website The Fauxy, the jet can be seen giving the state of Kerala five golden stars, calling it “an amazing place”.
“I don’t want to leave. Definitely recommend,” the image quotes the jet as saying.
“Though tourism is under the government, it has moved out of government space in promoting the destination,” said Roy Mathew, director of Stark Communications, the tourism department’s brand promotion agency.
Kerala is among India’s most popular tourist destinations, and markets itself with the tagline ‘God’s own country’. Last year, 22.2 million tourists visited the state.
It boasts natural beauty along India’s south-western coastline and a rich heritage of classical dances, temple festivals and vibrant cuisine.
The Indian Air Force said last month it would help in the repair and return of the F-35, which made an emergency landing on June 14 when it was flying over the Arabian Sea off Kerala’s coast.
A British High Commission spokesperson told Reuters the UK had accepted an offer to move the aircraft to the Maintenance Repair and Overhaul facility at the airport. The jet will be moved to the hangar once engineering teams arrive from the UK with specialist equipment, the spokesperson added.
The Royal Navy did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
UK’s Minister for the Armed Forces Luke Pollard said in Parliament on Monday that a Royal Air Force crew were in Thiruvananthapuram and working with Indian counterparts.
Ad Feedback

