podcast
The Assignment with Audie Cornish
Every Thursday on The Assignment, host Audie Cornish explores the animating forces of this extraordinary American political moment. It’s not about the horse race, it’s about the larger cultural ideas driving the conversation: the role of online influencers on the electorate, the intersection of pop culture and politics, and discussions with primary voices and thinkers who are shaping the political conversation.
Follow
How MAGA and Billionaires Are Reshaping What Media You Consume The Assignment with Audie Cornish
Late-night host Jimmy Kimmel returned to TV after being suspended for his comments on Charlie Kirk's assassination. It was the latest sign of political pressure shaping the media landscape into something that may have been unrecognizable a decade ago. So how did we get here, and where are we headed? Axios media correspondent and CNN contributor Sara Fischer talks about the forces at play and how they’re influencing everything from talk shows to social media algorithms. 



This episode was Produced by Lori Galarreta and Madeleine Thompson

Senior Producer: Matt Martinez  Technical Director: Dan Dzula   Executive Producer:  Steve Lickteig
Sep 25, 2025
How to Break the Cycle of Political Violence The Assignment with Audie Cornish
Charlie Kirk’s assassination may be part of a larger “political realignment” in America, that’s according to Rachel Kleinfeld, a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and a leading scholar on political violence. She explains what it is, why it's violent, how it could get worse, and possible paths out.



This episode was Produced by Lori Galarreta and Jesse Remedios

Senior Producer: Matt Martinez  Technical Director: Dan Dzula   Executive Producer:  Steve Lickteig
Sep 18, 2025
How Algorithms Are Rewiring the Way We Talk The Assignment with Audie Cornish
Social media doesn’t just decide what you see — it shapes how you speak. Audie talks to linguist, author and educational influencer, Adam Aleksic to explore how the way we communicate is mutating in the age of TikTok, Trump, and ChatGPT. 

Adam’s book is called, “Algospeak: How Social Media Is Transforming the Future of Language.” 

-- 

This episode was Produced by Lori Galarreta 

Senior Producer: Matt Martinez  Technical Director: Dan Dzula   Executive Producer:  Steve Lickteig
Sep 11, 2025
27 mins
Why Are Shows Like ‘Hunting Wives' and ‘Yellowstone’ So Popular Now? The Assignment with Audie Cornish
One of the biggest shows of the summer was Netflix’s “Hunting Wives,” a raunchy, soapy thriller about gun-toting Texas housewives. It’s the latest hit in a growing wave of so-called “red state entertainment” finding audiences everywhere. Audie calls up comedian and longtime television producer Larry Wilmore to find out what’s driving Hollywood’s pronounced shift away from the hard lean into wokeness we saw just a few years ago. Is this a lasting change, or just another spin of the wheel in studios’ chase for the next big thing?

-- 

This episode was Produced by Jesse Remedios 

Senior Producer: Matt Martinez  Technical Director: Dan Dzula   Executive Producer:  Steve Lickteig
Sep 4, 2025
The Generation That Inherited Hurricane Katrina The Assignment with Audie Cornish
It’s been 20 years since Hurricane Katrina devastated New Orleans. But for many, the storm is not just a memory, it’s an inheritance. At Be Loud Studios, an after-school program that helps young people tell their stories through radio, educator Alex Owens created Born After the Storm a podcast where local teens reflect on Katrina’s legacy. Audie sits down with high school senior Amari Walton, one of the storytellers, and Alex, who leads the program, to hear how the storm’s impact lives on through those who never lived it. 

-- 

This episode was Produced by Lori Galarreta 

Senior Producer: Matt Martinez  Technical Director: Dan Dzula   Executive Producer:  Steve Lickteig
Aug 28, 2025
Dating Apps and the Demise of American Romance The Assignment with Audie Cornish
Dating apps are reporting record breaking numbers. Yet surveys show people across generations and sexualities are partnering less, having less sex, and are feeling increasingly pessimistic about the state of American romance. So what’s going on? Audie sits down with Faith Hill – staff writer at The Atlantic, who closely covers ‘The Slow, Quiet Demise of American Romance’ – for a breakdown of the uniquely modern challenges and consequences of searching for love on your phone.  

-- 

This episode was Produced by Jesse Remedios and Lauren Kim.  

Senior Producers: Matt Martinez and Dan Bloom Technical Director: Dan Dzula   Executive Producer:  Steve Lickteig
Aug 21, 2025
The Offline Rebellion of the Most Online Generation The Assignment with Audie Cornish
Audie talks with artist and organizer Kennedy McDaniel about how she, and others in her generation -- Gen Z -- are finding connection and power offline through an old school medium: zines. 

This episode was Produced by Lori Galarreta.  

Senior Producer: Matt Martinez Technical Director: Dan Dzula   Executive Producer:  Steve Lickteig
Aug 14, 2025
Are Respectability Politics Over? The Assignment with Audie Cornish
Kamala Harris is stepping back. And Jasmine Crockett – the fiery Texas congresswoman known for viral clapbacks – is turning heads. This week, Audie asks: are “respectability politics” still the price of power for Black politicians, or are the rules finally changing in the age of Trump? NOTUS White House Correspondent Jasmine Wright and GOP Strategist Melik Abdul to help her parse it out. 

The Assignment is a production of CNN Podcasts. This episode was Produced by Jesse Remedios and Sofia Sanchez. Our Senior Producer is Matt Martinez. Dan Dzula is our Technical Director and Steve Lickteig is Executive Producer of CNN Podcasts.
Aug 7, 2025
35 mins
What the Recent Obsession with Yachts Says About Class in America The Assignment with Audie Cornish
We’re living in a golden age of yachts, bunkers, and ultra-wealth – and social media is eating it up. Audie talks with journalist and author Evan Osnos about what this era reveals about American culture and class. His book is called, “The Haves and Have-Yachts: Dispatches on the Ultrarich.” 



The Assignment is a production of CNN Podcasts. This episode was produced by Lori Galarreta and Grace Walker. Our Senior Producer is Matt Martinez. Dan Dzula is our Technical Director and Steve Lickteig is Executive Producer of CNN Podcasts.
Jul 31, 2025
How Early 2000s Pop Culture Pitted Women Against Each Other The Assignment with Audie Cornish
In the early 2000s, girlhood became a spectacle. It was sold through reality TV, tabloid scandals, and the early Internet. And it’s still shaping the way we see women today. Audie talks with Sophie Gilbert, culture critic and author of “Girl on Girl: How Pop Culture Turned a Generation of Women Against Themselves.”
Jul 24, 2025

